The Stonewall riots were a series of spontaneous, violent demonstrations
against a police raid that took place in the early morning hours of June 28,
1969, at the Stonewall Inn, in the Greenwich Village neighborhood of New
York City. They are frequently cited as the first instance in American
history when people in the homosexual community fought back against a
government-sponsored system that persecuted sexual minorities, and they have
become the defining event that marked the start of the gay rights movement
in the United States and around the world.

American gays and lesbians in the 1950s and 1960s faced a legal system more
anti-homosexual than those of some Warsaw Pact countries.[note 1][2] Early
homophile groups in the U.S. sought to prove that gay people could be
assimilated into society, and they favored non-confrontational education for
homosexuals and heterosexuals alike. The last years of the 1960s, however,
were very contentious, as many social movements were active, including the
African American Civil Rights Movement, the Counterculture of the 1960s, and
antiwar demonstrations. These influences, along with the liberal environment
of Greenwich Village, served as catalysts for the Stonewall riots.

Very few establishments welcomed openly gay people in the 1950s and 1960s.
Those that did were often bars, although bar owners and managers were rarely
gay. The Stonewall Inn, at the time, was owned by the Mafia.[3][4] It
catered to an assortment of patrons, but it was known to be popular with the
most marginalized people in the gay community: transvestites, effeminate
young men, hustlers, and homeless youth.[note 2] Police raids on gay bars
were routine in the 1960s, but officers quickly lost control of the
situation at the Stonewall Inn, and attracted a crowd that was incited to
riot. Tensions between New York City police and gay residents of Greenwich
Village erupted into more protests the next evening, and again several
nights later. Within weeks, Village residents quickly organized into
activist groups to concentrate efforts on establishing places for gays and
lesbians to be open about their sexual orientation without fear of being
arrested.

After the Stonewall riots, gays and lesbians in New York City faced gender,
class, and generational obstacles to becoming a cohesive community. Within
six months, two gay activist organizations were formed in New York,
concentrating on confrontational tactics, and three newspapers were
established to promote rights for gays and lesbians. Within a few years, gay
rights organizations were founded across the U.S. and the world. On June 28,
1970, the first Gay Pride marches took place in Los Angeles and New York
commemorating the anniversary of the riots. Similar marches were organized
in other cities. Today, Gay Pride events are held annually throughout the
world toward the end of June to mark the Stonewall riots.
The Stonewall riots were a series of spontaneous, violent demonstrations
against a police raid that took place in the early morning hours of June 28,
1969, at the Stonewall Inn, in the Greenwich Village neighborhood of New
York City. They are frequently cited as the first instance in American
history when people in the homosexual community fought back against a
government-sponsored system that persecuted sexual minorities, and they have
become the defining event that marked the start of the gay rights movement
in the United States and around the world.

American gays and lesbians in the 1950s and 1960s faced a legal system more
anti-homosexual than those of some Warsaw Pact countries.[note 1][2] Early
homophile groups in the U.S. sought to prove that gay people could be
assimilated into society, and they favored non-confrontational education for
homosexuals and heterosexuals alike. The last years of the 1960s, however,
were very contentious, as many social movements were active, including the
African American Civil Rights Movement, the Counterculture of the 1960s, and
antiwar demonstrations. These influences, along with the liberal environment
of Greenwich Village, served as catalysts for the Stonewall riots.

Very few establishments welcomed openly gay people in the 1950s and 1960s.
Those that did were often bars, although bar owners and managers were rarely
gay. The Stonewall Inn, at the time, was owned by the Mafia.[3][4] It
catered to an assortment of patrons, but it was known to be popular with the
most marginalized people in the gay community: transvestites, effeminate
young men, hustlers, and homeless youth.[note 2] Police raids on gay bars
were routine in the 1960s, but officers quickly lost control of the
situation at the Stonewall Inn, and attracted a crowd that was incited to
riot. Tensions between New York City police and gay residents of Greenwich
Village erupted into more protests the next evening, and again several
nights later. Within weeks, Village residents quickly organized into
activist groups to concentrate efforts on establishing places for gays and
lesbians to be open about their sexual orientation without fear of being
arrested.

After the Stonewall riots, gays and lesbians in New York City faced gender,
class, and generational obstacles to becoming a cohesive community. Within
six months, two gay activist organizations were formed in New York,
concentrating on confrontational tactics, and three newspapers were
established to promote rights for gays and lesbians. Within a few years, gay
rights organizations were founded across the U.S. and the world. On June 28,
1970, the first Gay Pride marches took place in Los Angeles and New York
commemorating the anniversary of the riots. Similar marches were organized
in other cities. Today, Gay Pride events are held annually throughout the
world toward the end of June to mark the Stonewall riots.
The Stonewall riots were a series of spontaneous, violent demonstrations
against a police raid that took place in the early morning hours of June 28,
1969, at the Stonewall Inn, in the Greenwich Village neighborhood of New
York City. They are frequently cited as the first instance in American
history when people in the homosexual community fought back against a
government-sponsored system that persecuted sexual minorities, and they have
become the defining event that marked the start of the gay rights movement
in the United States and around the world.

American gays and lesbians in the 1950s and 1960s faced a legal system more
anti-homosexual than those of some Warsaw Pact countries.[note 1][2] Early
homophile groups in the U.S. sought to prove that gay people could be
assimilated into society, and they favored non-confrontational education for
homosexuals and heterosexuals alike. The last years of the 1960s, however,
were very contentious, as many social movements were active, including the
African American Civil Rights Movement, the Counterculture of the 1960s, and
antiwar demonstrations. These influences, along with the liberal environment
of Greenwich Village, served as catalysts for the Stonewall riots.

Very few establishments welcomed openly gay people in the 1950s and 1960s.
Those that did were often bars, although bar owners and managers were rarely
gay. The Stonewall Inn, at the time, was owned by the Mafia.[3][4] It
catered to an assortment of patrons, but it was known to be popular with the
most marginalized people in the gay community: transvestites, effeminate
young men, hustlers, and homeless youth.[note 2] Police raids on gay bars
were routine in the 1960s, but officers quickly lost control of the
situation at the Stonewall Inn, and attracted a crowd that was incited to
riot. Tensions between New York City police and gay residents of Greenwich
Village erupted into more protests the next evening, and again several
nights later. Within weeks, Village residents quickly organized into
activist groups to concentrate efforts on establishing places for gays and
lesbians to be open about their sexual orientation without fear of being
arrested.

After the Stonewall riots, gays and lesbians in New York City faced gender,
class, and generational obstacles to becoming a cohesive community. Within
six months, two gay activist organizations were formed in New York,
concentrating on confrontational tactics, and three newspapers were
established to promote rights for gays and lesbians. Within a few years, gay
rights organizations were founded across the U.S. and the world. On June 28,
1970, the first Gay Pride marches took place in Los Angeles and New York
commemorating the anniversary of the riots. Similar marches were organized
in other cities. Today, Gay Pride events are held annually throughout the
world toward the end of June to mark the Stonewall riots.
The Stonewall riots were a series of spontaneous, violent demonstrations
against a police raid that took place in the early morning hours of June 28,
1969, at the Stonewall Inn, in the Greenwich Village neighborhood of New
York City. They are frequently cited as the first instance in American
history when people in the homosexual community fought back against a
government-sponsored system that persecuted sexual minorities, and they have
become the defining event that marked the start of the gay rights movement
in the United States and around the world.

American gays and lesbians in the 1950s and 1960s faced a legal system more
anti-homosexual than those of some Warsaw Pact countries.[note 1][2] Early
homophile groups in the U.S. sought to prove that gay people could be
assimilated into society, and they favored non-confrontational education for
homosexuals and heterosexuals alike. The last years of the 1960s, however,
were very contentious, as many social movements were active, including the
African American Civil Rights Movement, the Counterculture of the 1960s, and
antiwar demonstrations. These influences, along with the liberal environment
of Greenwich Village, served as catalysts for the Stonewall riots.

Very few establishments welcomed openly gay people in the 1950s and 1960s.
Those that did were often bars, although bar owners and managers were rarely
gay. The Stonewall Inn, at the time, was owned by the Mafia.[3][4] It
catered to an assortment of patrons, but it was known to be popular with the
most marginalized people in the gay community: transvestites, effeminate
young men, hustlers, and homeless youth.[note 2] Police raids on gay bars
were routine in the 1960s, but officers quickly lost control of the
situation at the Stonewall Inn, and attracted a crowd that was incited to
riot. Tensions between New York City police and gay residents of Greenwich
Village erupted into more protests the next evening, and again several
nights later. Within weeks, Village residents quickly organized into
activist groups to concentrate efforts on establishing places for gays and
lesbians to be open about their sexual orientation without fear of being
arrested.

After the Stonewall riots, gays and lesbians in New York City faced gender,
class, and generational obstacles to becoming a cohesive community. Within
six months, two gay activist organizations were formed in New York,
concentrating on confrontational tactics, and three newspapers were
established to promote rights for gays and lesbians. Within a few years, gay
rights organizations were founded across the U.S. and the world. On June 28,
1970, the first Gay Pride marches took place in Los Angeles and New York
commemorating the anniversary of the riots. Similar marches were organized
in other cities. Today, Gay Pride events are held annually throughout the
world toward the end of June to mark the Stonewall riots.
The Stonewall riots were a series of spontaneous, violent demonstrations
against a police raid that took place in the early morning hours of June 28,
1969, at the Stonewall Inn, in the Greenwich Village neighborhood of New
York City. They are frequently cited as the first instance in American
history when people in the homosexual community fought back against a
government-sponsored system that persecuted sexual minorities, and they have
become the defining event that marked the start of the gay rights movement
in the United States and around the world.

American gays and lesbians in the 1950s and 1960s faced a legal system more
anti-homosexual than those of some Warsaw Pact countries.[note 1][2] Early
homophile groups in the U.S. sought to prove that gay people could be
assimilated into society, and they favored non-confrontational education for
homosexuals and heterosexuals alike. The last years of the 1960s, however,
were very contentious, as many social movements were active, including the
African American Civil Rights Movement, the Counterculture of the 1960s, and
antiwar demonstrations. These influences, along with the liberal environment
of Greenwich Village, served as catalysts for the Stonewall riots.

Very few establishments welcomed openly gay people in the 1950s and 1960s.
Those that did were often bars, although bar owners and managers were rarely
gay. The Stonewall Inn, at the time, was owned by the Mafia.[3][4] It
catered to an assortment of patrons, but it was known to be popular with the
most marginalized people in the gay community: transvestites, effeminate
young men, hustlers, and homeless youth.[note 2] Police raids on gay bars
were routine in the 1960s, but officers quickly lost control of the
situation at the Stonewall Inn, and attracted a crowd that was incited to
riot. Tensions between New York City police and gay residents of Greenwich
Village erupted into more protests the next evening, and again several
nights later. Within weeks, Village residents quickly organized into
activist groups to concentrate efforts on establishing places for gays and
lesbians to be open about their sexual orientation without fear of being
arrested.

After the Stonewall riots, gays and lesbians in New York City faced gender,
class, and generational obstacles to becoming a cohesive community. Within
six months, two gay activist organizations were formed in New York,
concentrating on confrontational tactics, and three newspapers were
established to promote rights for gays and lesbians. Within a few years, gay
rights organizations were founded across the U.S. and the world. On June 28,
1970, the first Gay Pride marches took place in Los Angeles and New York
commemorating the anniversary of the riots. Similar marches were organized
in other cities. Today, Gay Pride events are held annually throughout the
world toward the end of June to mark the Stonewall riots.
The Stonewall riots were a series of spontaneous, violent demonstrations
against a police raid that took place in the early morning hours of June 28,
1969, at the Stonewall Inn, in the Greenwich Village neighborhood of New
York City. They are frequently cited as the first instance in American
history when people in the homosexual community fought back against a
government-sponsored system that persecuted sexual minorities, and they have
become the defining event that marked the start of the gay rights movement
in the United States and around the world.

American gays and lesbians in the 1950s and 1960s faced a legal system more
anti-homosexual than those of some Warsaw Pact countries.[note 1][2] Early
homophile groups in the U.S. sought to prove that gay people could be
assimilated into society, and they favored non-confrontational education for
homosexuals and heterosexuals alike. The last years of the 1960s, however,
were very contentious, as many social movements were active, including the
African American Civil Rights Movement, the Counterculture of the 1960s, and
antiwar demonstrations. These influences, along with the liberal environment
of Greenwich Village, served as catalysts for the Stonewall riots.

Very few establishments welcomed openly gay people in the 1950s and 1960s.
Those that did were often bars, although bar owners and managers were rarely
gay. The Stonewall Inn, at the time, was owned by the Mafia.[3][4] It
catered to an assortment of patrons, but it was known to be popular with the
most marginalized people in the gay community: transvestites, effeminate
young men, hustlers, and homeless youth.[note 2] Police raids on gay bars
were routine in the 1960s, but officers quickly lost control of the
situation at the Stonewall Inn, and attracted a crowd that was incited to
riot. Tensions between New York City police and gay residents of Greenwich
Village erupted into more protests the next evening, and again several
nights later. Within weeks, Village residents quickly organized into
activist groups to concentrate efforts on establishing places for gays and
lesbians to be open about their sexual orientation without fear of being
arrested.

After the Stonewall riots, gays and lesbians in New York City faced gender,
class, and generational obstacles to becoming a cohesive community. Within
six months, two gay activist organizations were formed in New York,
concentrating on confrontational tactics, and three newspapers were
established to promote rights for gays and lesbians. Within a few years, gay
rights organizations were founded across the U.S. and the world. On June 28,
1970, the first Gay Pride marches took place in Los Angeles and New York
commemorating the anniversary of the riots. Similar marches were organized
in other cities. Today, Gay Pride events are held annually throughout the
world toward the end of June to mark the Stonewall riots.
The Stonewall riots were a series of spontaneous, violent demonstrations
against a police raid that took place in the early morning hours of June 28,
1969, at the Stonewall Inn, in the Greenwich Village neighborhood of New
York City. They are frequently cited as the first instance in American
history when people in the homosexual community fought back against a
government-sponsored system that persecuted sexual minorities, and they have
become the defining event that marked the start of the gay rights movement
in the United States and around the world.

American gays and lesbians in the 1950s and 1960s faced a legal system more
anti-homosexual than those of some Warsaw Pact countries.[note 1][2] Early
homophile groups in the U.S. sought to prove that gay people could be
assimilated into society, and they favored non-confrontational education for
homosexuals and heterosexuals alike. The last years of the 1960s, however,
were very contentious, as many social movements were active, including the
African American Civil Rights Movement, the Counterculture of the 1960s, and
antiwar demonstrations. These influences, along with the liberal environment
of Greenwich Village, served as catalysts for the Stonewall riots.

Very few establishments welcomed openly gay people in the 1950s and 1960s.
Those that did were often bars, although bar owners and managers were rarely
gay. The Stonewall Inn, at the time, was owned by the Mafia.[3][4] It
catered to an assortment of patrons, but it was known to be popular with the
most marginalized people in the gay community: transvestites, effeminate
young men, hustlers, and homeless youth.[note 2] Police raids on gay bars
were routine in the 1960s, but officers quickly lost control of the
situation at the Stonewall Inn, and attracted a crowd that was incited to
riot. Tensions between New York City police and gay residents of Greenwich
Village erupted into more protests the next evening, and again several
nights later. Within weeks, Village residents quickly organized into
activist groups to concentrate efforts on establishing places for gays and
lesbians to be open about their sexual orientation without fear of being
arrested.

After the Stonewall riots, gays and lesbians in New York City faced gender,
class, and generational obstacles to becoming a cohesive community. Within
six months, two gay activist organizations were formed in New York,
concentrating on confrontational tactics, and three newspapers were
established to promote rights for gays and lesbians. Within a few years, gay
rights organizations were founded across the U.S. and the world. On June 28,
1970, the first Gay Pride marches took place in Los Angeles and New York
commemorating the anniversary of the riots. Similar marches were organized
in other cities. Today, Gay Pride events are held annually throughout the
world toward the end of June to mark the Stonewall riots.
The Stonewall riots were a series of spontaneous, violent demonstrations
against a police raid that took place in the early morning hours of June 28,
1969, at the Stonewall Inn, in the Greenwich Village neighborhood of New
York City. They are frequently cited as the first instance in American
history when people in the homosexual community fought back against a
government-sponsored system that persecuted sexual minorities, and they have
become the defining event that marked the start of the gay rights movement
in the United States and around the world.

American gays and lesbians in the 1950s and 1960s faced a legal system more
anti-homosexual than those of some Warsaw Pact countries.[note 1][2] Early
homophile groups in the U.S. sought to prove that gay people could be
assimilated into society, and they favored non-confrontational education for
homosexuals and heterosexuals alike. The last years of the 1960s, however,
were very contentious, as many social movements were active, including the
African American Civil Rights Movement, the Counterculture of the 1960s, and
antiwar demonstrations. These influences, along with the liberal environment
of Greenwich Village, served as catalysts for the Stonewall riots.

Very few establishments welcomed openly gay people in the 1950s and 1960s.
Those that did were often bars, although bar owners and managers were rarely
gay. The Stonewall Inn, at the time, was owned by the Mafia.[3][4] It
catered to an assortment of patrons, but it was known to be popular with the
most marginalized people in the gay community: transvestites, effeminate
young men, hustlers, and homeless youth.[note 2] Police raids on gay bars
were routine in the 1960s, but officers quickly lost control of the
situation at the Stonewall Inn, and attracted a crowd that was incited to
riot. Tensions between New York City police and gay residents of Greenwich
Village erupted into more protests the next evening, and again several
nights later. Within weeks, Village residents quickly organized into
activist groups to concentrate efforts on establishing places for gays and
lesbians to be open about their sexual orientation without fear of being
arrested.

After the Stonewall riots, gays and lesbians in New York City faced gender,
class, and generational obstacles to becoming a cohesive community. Within
six months, two gay activist organizations were formed in New York,
concentrating on confrontational tactics, and three newspapers were
established to promote rights for gays and lesbians. Within a few years, gay
rights organizations were founded across the U.S. and the world. On June 28,
1970, the first Gay Pride marches took place in Los Angeles and New York
commemorating the anniversary of the riots. Similar marches were organized
in other cities. Today, Gay Pride events are held annually throughout the
world toward the end of June to mark the Stonewall riots.
The Stonewall riots were a series of spontaneous, violent demonstrations
against a police raid that took place in the early morning hours of June 28,
1969, at the Stonewall Inn, in the Greenwich Village neighborhood of New
York City. They are frequently cited as the first instance in American
history when people in the homosexual community fought back against a
government-sponsored system that persecuted sexual minorities, and they have
become the defining event that marked the start of the gay rights movement
in the United States and around the world.

American gays and lesbians in the 1950s and 1960s faced a legal system more
anti-homosexual than those of some Warsaw Pact countries.[note 1][2] Early
homophile groups in the U.S. sought to prove that gay people could be
assimilated into society, and they favored non-confrontational education for
homosexuals and heterosexuals alike. The last years of the 1960s, however,
were very contentious, as many social movements were active, including the
African American Civil Rights Movement, the Counterculture of the 1960s, and
antiwar demonstrations. These influences, along with the liberal environment
of Greenwich Village, served as catalysts for the Stonewall riots.

Very few establishments welcomed openly gay people in the 1950s and 1960s.
Those that did were often bars, although bar owners and managers were rarely
gay. The Stonewall Inn, at the time, was owned by the Mafia.[3][4] It
catered to an assortment of patrons, but it was known to be popular with the
most marginalized people in the gay community: transvestites, effeminate
young men, hustlers, and homeless youth.[note 2] Police raids on gay bars
were routine in the 1960s, but officers quickly lost control of the
situation at the Stonewall Inn, and attracted a crowd that was incited to
riot. Tensions between New York City police and gay residents of Greenwich
Village erupted into more protests the next evening, and again several
nights later. Within weeks, Village residents quickly organized into
activist groups to concentrate efforts on establishing places for gays and
lesbians to be open about their sexual orientation without fear of being
arrested.

After the Stonewall riots, gays and lesbians in New York City faced gender,
class, and generational obstacles to becoming a cohesive community. Within
six months, two gay activist organizations were formed in New York,
concentrating on confrontational tactics, and three newspapers were
established to promote rights for gays and lesbians. Within a few years, gay
rights organizations were founded across the U.S. and the world. On June 28,
1970, the first Gay Pride marches took place in Los Angeles and New York
commemorating the anniversary of the riots. Similar marches were organized
in other cities. Today, Gay Pride events are held annually throughout the
world toward the end of June to mark the Stonewall riots.
The Stonewall riots were a series of spontaneous, violent demonstrations
against a police raid that took place in the early morning hours of June 28,
1969, at the Stonewall Inn, in the Greenwich Village neighborhood of New
York City. They are frequently cited as the first instance in American
history when people in the homosexual community fought back against a
government-sponsored system that persecuted sexual minorities, and they have
become the defining event that marked the start of the gay rights movement
in the United States and around the world.

American gays and lesbians in the 1950s and 1960s faced a legal system more
anti-homosexual than those of some Warsaw Pact countries.[note 1][2] Early
homophile groups in the U.S. sought to prove that gay people could be
assimilated into society, and they favored non-confrontational education for
homosexuals and heterosexuals alike. The last years of the 1960s, however,
were very contentious, as many social movements were active, including the
African American Civil Rights Movement, the Counterculture of the 1960s, and
antiwar demonstrations. These influences, along with the liberal environment
of Greenwich Village, served as catalysts for the Stonewall riots.

Very few establishments welcomed openly gay people in the 1950s and 1960s.
Those that did were often bars, although bar owners and managers were rarely
gay. The Stonewall Inn, at the time, was owned by the Mafia.[3][4] It
catered to an assortment of patrons, but it was known to be popular with the
most marginalized people in the gay community: transvestites, effeminate
young men, hustlers, and homeless youth.[note 2] Police raids on gay bars
were routine in the 1960s, but officers quickly lost control of the
situation at the Stonewall Inn, and attracted a crowd that was incited to
riot. Tensions between New York City police and gay residents of Greenwich
Village erupted into more protests the next evening, and again several
nights later. Within weeks, Village residents quickly organized into
activist groups to concentrate efforts on establishing places for gays and
lesbians to be open about their sexual orientation without fear of being
arrested.

After the Stonewall riots, gays and lesbians in New York City faced gender,
class, and generational obstacles to becoming a cohesive community. Within
six months, two gay activist organizations were formed in New York,
concentrating on confrontational tactics, and three newspapers were
established to promote rights for gays and lesbians. Within a few years, gay
rights organizations were founded across the U.S. and the world. On June 28,
1970, the first Gay Pride marches took place in Los Angeles and New York
commemorating the anniversary of the riots. Similar marches were organized
in other cities. Today, Gay Pride events are held annually throughout the
world toward the end of June to mark the Stonewall riots.
The Stonewall riots were a series of spontaneous, violent demonstrations
against a police raid that took place in the early morning hours of June 28,
1969, at the Stonewall Inn, in the Greenwich Village neighborhood of New
York City. They are frequently cited as the first instance in American
history when people in the homosexual community fought back against a
government-sponsored system that persecuted sexual minorities, and they have
become the defining event that marked the start of the gay rights movement
in the United States and around the world.

American gays and lesbians in the 1950s and 1960s faced a legal system more
anti-homosexual than those of some Warsaw Pact countries.[note 1][2] Early
homophile groups in the U.S. sought to prove that gay people could be
assimilated into society, and they favored non-confrontational education for
homosexuals and heterosexuals alike. The last years of the 1960s, however,
were very contentious, as many social movements were active, including the
African American Civil Rights Movement, the Counterculture of the 1960s, and
antiwar demonstrations. These influences, along with the liberal environment
of Greenwich Village, served as catalysts for the Stonewall riots.

Very few establishments welcomed openly gay people in the 1950s and 1960s.
Those that did were often bars, although bar owners and managers were rarely
gay. The Stonewall Inn, at the time, was owned by the Mafia.[3][4] It
catered to an assortment of patrons, but it was known to be popular with the
most marginalized people in the gay community: transvestites, effeminate
young men, hustlers, and homeless youth.[note 2] Police raids on gay bars
were routine in the 1960s, but officers quickly lost control of the
situation at the Stonewall Inn, and attracted a crowd that was incited to
riot. Tensions between New York City police and gay residents of Greenwich
Village erupted into more protests the next evening, and again several
nights later. Within weeks, Village residents quickly organized into
activist groups to concentrate efforts on establishing places for gays and
lesbians to be open about their sexual orientation without fear of being
arrested.

After the Stonewall riots, gays and lesbians in New York City faced gender,
class, and generational obstacles to becoming a cohesive community. Within
six months, two gay activist organizations were formed in New York,
concentrating on confrontational tactics, and three newspapers were
established to promote rights for gays and lesbians. Within a few years, gay
rights organizations were founded across the U.S. and the world. On June 28,
1970, the first Gay Pride marches took place in Los Angeles and New York
commemorating the anniversary of the riots. Similar marches were organized
in other cities. Today, Gay Pride events are held annually throughout the
world toward the end of June to mark the Stonewall riots.
The Stonewall riots were a series of spontaneous, violent demonstrations
against a police raid that took place in the early morning hours of June 28,
1969, at the Stonewall Inn, in the Greenwich Village neighborhood of New
York City. They are frequently cited as the first instance in American
history when people in the homosexual community fought back against a
government-sponsored system that persecuted sexual minorities, and they have
become the defining event that marked the start of the gay rights movement
in the United States and around the world.

American gays and lesbians in the 1950s and 1960s faced a legal system more
anti-homosexual than those of some Warsaw Pact countries.[note 1][2] Early
homophile groups in the U.S. sought to prove that gay people could be
assimilated into society, and they favored non-confrontational education for
homosexuals and heterosexuals alike. The last years of the 1960s, however,
were very contentious, as many social movements were active, including the
African American Civil Rights Movement, the Counterculture of the 1960s, and
antiwar demonstrations. These influences, along with the liberal environment
of Greenwich Village, served as catalysts for the Stonewall riots.

Very few establishments welcomed openly gay people in the 1950s and 1960s.
Those that did were often bars, although bar owners and managers were rarely
gay. The Stonewall Inn, at the time, was owned by the Mafia.[3][4] It
catered to an assortment of patrons, but it was known to be popular with the
most marginalized people in the gay community: transvestites, effeminate
young men, hustlers, and homeless youth.[note 2] Police raids on gay bars
were routine in the 1960s, but officers quickly lost control of the
situation at the Stonewall Inn, and attracted a crowd that was incited to
riot. Tensions between New York City police and gay residents of Greenwich
Village erupted into more protests the next evening, and again several
nights later. Within weeks, Village residents quickly organized into
activist groups to concentrate efforts on establishing places for gays and
lesbians to be open about their sexual orientation without fear of being
arrested.

After the Stonewall riots, gays and lesbians in New York City faced gender,
class, and generational obstacles to becoming a cohesive community. Within
six months, two gay activist organizations were formed in New York,
concentrating on confrontational tactics, and three newspapers were
established to promote rights for gays and lesbians. Within a few years, gay
rights organizations were founded across the U.S. and the world. On June 28,
1970, the first Gay Pride marches took place in Los Angeles and New York
commemorating the anniversary of the riots. Similar marches were organized
in other cities. Today, Gay Pride events are held annually throughout the
world toward the end of June to mark the Stonewall riots.
The Stonewall riots were a series of spontaneous, violent demonstrations
against a police raid that took place in the early morning hours of June 28,
1969, at the Stonewall Inn, in the Greenwich Village neighborhood of New
York City. They are frequently cited as the first instance in American
history when people in the homosexual community fought back against a
government-sponsored system that persecuted sexual minorities, and they have
become the defining event that marked the start of the gay rights movement
in the United States and around the world.

American gays and lesbians in the 1950s and 1960s faced a legal system more
anti-homosexual than those of some Warsaw Pact countries.[note 1][2] Early
homophile groups in the U.S. sought to prove that gay people could be
assimilated into society, and they favored non-confrontational education for
homosexuals and heterosexuals alike. The last years of the 1960s, however,
were very contentious, as many social movements were active, including the
African American Civil Rights Movement, the Counterculture of the 1960s, and
antiwar demonstrations. These influences, along with the liberal environment
of Greenwich Village, served as catalysts for the Stonewall riots.

Very few establishments welcomed openly gay people in the 1950s and 1960s.
Those that did were often bars, although bar owners and managers were rarely
gay. The Stonewall Inn, at the time, was owned by the Mafia.[3][4] It
catered to an assortment of patrons, but it was known to be popular with the
most marginalized people in the gay community: transvestites, effeminate
young men, hustlers, and homeless youth.[note 2] Police raids on gay bars
were routine in the 1960s, but officers quickly lost control of the
situation at the Stonewall Inn, and attracted a crowd that was incited to
riot. Tensions between New York City police and gay residents of Greenwich
Village erupted into more protests the next evening, and again several
nights later. Within weeks, Village residents quickly organized into
activist groups to concentrate efforts on establishing places for gays and
lesbians to be open about their sexual orientation without fear of being
arrested.

After the Stonewall riots, gays and lesbians in New York City faced gender,
class, and generational obstacles to becoming a cohesive community. Within
six months, two gay activist organizations were formed in New York,
concentrating on confrontational tactics, and three newspapers were
established to promote rights for gays and lesbians. Within a few years, gay
rights organizations were founded across the U.S. and the world. On June 28,
1970, the first Gay Pride marches took place in Los Angeles and New York
commemorating the anniversary of the riots. Similar marches were organized
in other cities. Today, Gay Pride events are held annually throughout the
world toward the end of June to mark the Stonewall riots.
The Stonewall riots were a series of spontaneous, violent demonstrations
against a police raid that took place in the early morning hours of June 28,
1969, at the Stonewall Inn, in the Greenwich Village neighborhood of New
York City. They are frequently cited as the first instance in American
history when people in the homosexual community fought back against a
government-sponsored system that persecuted sexual minorities, and they have
become the defining event that marked the start of the gay rights movement
in the United States and around the world.

American gays and lesbians in the 1950s and 1960s faced a legal system more
anti-homosexual than those of some Warsaw Pact countries.[note 1][2] Early
homophile groups in the U.S. sought to prove that gay people could be
assimilated into society, and they favored non-confrontational education for
homosexuals and heterosexuals alike. The last years of the 1960s, however,
were very contentious, as many social movements were active, including the
African American Civil Rights Movement, the Counterculture of the 1960s, and
antiwar demonstrations. These influences, along with the liberal environment
of Greenwich Village, served as catalysts for the Stonewall riots.

Very few establishments welcomed openly gay people in the 1950s and 1960s.
Those that did were often bars, although bar owners and managers were rarely
gay. The Stonewall Inn, at the time, was owned by the Mafia.[3][4] It
catered to an assortment of patrons, but it was known to be popular with the
most marginalized people in the gay community: transvestites, effeminate
young men, hustlers, and homeless youth.[note 2] Police raids on gay bars
were routine in the 1960s, but officers quickly lost control of the
situation at the Stonewall Inn, and attracted a crowd that was incited to
riot. Tensions between New York City police and gay residents of Greenwich
Village erupted into more protests the next evening, and again several
nights later. Within weeks, Village residents quickly organized into
activist groups to concentrate efforts on establishing places for gays and
lesbians to be open about their sexual orientation without fear of being
arrested.

After the Stonewall riots, gays and lesbians in New York City faced gender,
class, and generational obstacles to becoming a cohesive community. Within
six months, two gay activist organizations were formed in New York,
concentrating on confrontational tactics, and three newspapers were
established to promote rights for gays and lesbians. Within a few years, gay
rights organizations were founded across the U.S. and the world. On June 28,
1970, the first Gay Pride marches took place in Los Angeles and New York
commemorating the anniversary of the riots. Similar marches were organized
in other cities. Today, Gay Pride events are held annually throughout the
world toward the end of June to mark the Stonewall riots.
The Stonewall riots were a series of spontaneous, violent demonstrations
against a police raid that took place in the early morning hours of June 28,
1969, at the Stonewall Inn, in the Greenwich Village neighborhood of New
York City. They are frequently cited as the first instance in American
history when people in the homosexual community fought back against a
government-sponsored system that persecuted sexual minorities, and they have
become the defining event that marked the start of the gay rights movement
in the United States and around the world.

American gays and lesbians in the 1950s and 1960s faced a legal system more
anti-homosexual than those of some Warsaw Pact countries.[note 1][2] Early
homophile groups in the U.S. sought to prove that gay people could be
assimilated into society, and they favored non-confrontational education for
homosexuals and heterosexuals alike. The last years of the 1960s, however,
were very contentious, as many social movements were active, including the
African American Civil Rights Movement, the Counterculture of the 1960s, and
antiwar demonstrations. These influences, along with the liberal environment
of Greenwich Village, served as catalysts for the Stonewall riots.

Very few establishments welcomed openly gay people in the 1950s and 1960s.
Those that did were often bars, although bar owners and managers were rarely
gay. The Stonewall Inn, at the time, was owned by the Mafia.[3][4] It
catered to an assortment of patrons, but it was known to be popular with the
most marginalized people in the gay community: transvestites, effeminate
young men, hustlers, and homeless youth.[note 2] Police raids on gay bars
were routine in the 1960s, but officers quickly lost control of the
situation at the Stonewall Inn, and attracted a crowd that was incited to
riot. Tensions between New York City police and gay residents of Greenwich
Village erupted into more protests the next evening, and again several
nights later. Within weeks, Village residents quickly organized into
activist groups to concentrate efforts on establishing places for gays and
lesbians to be open about their sexual orientation without fear of being
arrested.

After the Stonewall riots, gays and lesbians in New York City faced gender,
class, and generational obstacles to becoming a cohesive community. Within
six months, two gay activist organizations were formed in New York,
concentrating on confrontational tactics, and three newspapers were
established to promote rights for gays and lesbians. Within a few years, gay
rights organizations were founded across the U.S. and the world. On June 28,
1970, the first Gay Pride marches took place in Los Angeles and New York
commemorating the anniversary of the riots. Similar marches were organized
in other cities. Today, Gay Pride events are held annually throughout the
world toward the end of June to mark the Stonewall riots.
The Stonewall riots were a series of spontaneous, violent demonstrations
against a police raid that took place in the early morning hours of June 28,
1969, at the Stonewall Inn, in the Greenwich Village neighborhood of New
York City. They are frequently cited as the first instance in American
history when people in the homosexual community fought back against a
government-sponsored system that persecuted sexual minorities, and they have
become the defining event that marked the start of the gay rights movement
in the United States and around the world.

American gays and lesbians in the 1950s and 1960s faced a legal system more
anti-homosexual than those of some Warsaw Pact countries.[note 1][2] Early
homophile groups in the U.S. sought to prove that gay people could be
assimilated into society, and they favored non-confrontational education for
homosexuals and heterosexuals alike. The last years of the 1960s, however,
were very contentious, as many social movements were active, including the
African American Civil Rights Movement, the Counterculture of the 1960s, and
antiwar demonstrations. These influences, along with the liberal environment
of Greenwich Village, served as catalysts for the Stonewall riots.

Very few establishments welcomed openly gay people in the 1950s and 1960s.
Those that did were often bars, although bar owners and managers were rarely
gay. The Stonewall Inn, at the time, was owned by the Mafia.[3][4] It
catered to an assortment of patrons, but it was known to be popular with the
most marginalized people in the gay community: transvestites, effeminate
young men, hustlers, and homeless youth.[note 2] Police raids on gay bars
were routine in the 1960s, but officers quickly lost control of the
situation at the Stonewall Inn, and attracted a crowd that was incited to
riot. Tensions between New York City police and gay residents of Greenwich
Village erupted into more protests the next evening, and again several
nights later. Within weeks, Village residents quickly organized into
activist groups to concentrate efforts on establishing places for gays and
lesbians to be open about their sexual orientation without fear of being
arrested.

After the Stonewall riots, gays and lesbians in New York City faced gender,
class, and generational obstacles to becoming a cohesive community. Within
six months, two gay activist organizations were formed in New York,
concentrating on confrontational tactics, and three newspapers were
established to promote rights for gays and lesbians. Within a few years, gay
rights organizations were founded across the U.S. and the world. On June 28,
1970, the first Gay Pride marches took place in Los Angeles and New York
commemorating the anniversary of the riots. Similar marches were organized
in other cities. Today, Gay Pride events are held annually throughout the
world toward the end of June to mark the Stonewall riots.
The Stonewall riots were a series of spontaneous, violent demonstrations
against a police raid that took place in the early morning hours of June 28,
1969, at the Stonewall Inn, in the Greenwich Village neighborhood of New
York City. They are frequently cited as the first instance in American
history when people in the homosexual community fought back against a
government-sponsored system that persecuted sexual minorities, and they have
become the defining event that marked the start of the gay rights movement
in the United States and around the world.

American gays and lesbians in the 1950s and 1960s faced a legal system more
anti-homosexual than those of some Warsaw Pact countries.[note 1][2] Early
homophile groups in the U.S. sought to prove that gay people could be
assimilated into society, and they favored non-confrontational education for
homosexuals and heterosexuals alike. The last years of the 1960s, however,
were very contentious, as many social movements were active, including the
African American Civil Rights Movement, the Counterculture of the 1960s, and
antiwar demonstrations. These influences, along with the liberal environment
of Greenwich Village, served as catalysts for the Stonewall riots.

Very few establishments welcomed openly gay people in the 1950s and 1960s.
Those that did were often bars, although bar owners and managers were rarely
gay. The Stonewall Inn, at the time, was owned by the Mafia.[3][4] It
catered to an assortment of patrons, but it was known to be popular with the
most marginalized people in the gay community: transvestites, effeminate
young men, hustlers, and homeless youth.[note 2] Police raids on gay bars
were routine in the 1960s, but officers quickly lost control of the
situation at the Stonewall Inn, and attracted a crowd that was incited to
riot. Tensions between New York City police and gay residents of Greenwich
Village erupted into more protests the next evening, and again several
nights later. Within weeks, Village residents quickly organized into
activist groups to concentrate efforts on establishing places for gays and
lesbians to be open about their sexual orientation without fear of being
arrested.

After the Stonewall riots, gays and lesbians in New York City faced gender,
class, and generational obstacles to becoming a cohesive community. Within
six months, two gay activist organizations were formed in New York,
concentrating on confrontational tactics, and three newspapers were
established to promote rights for gays and lesbians. Within a few years, gay
rights organizations were founded across the U.S. and the world. On June 28,
1970, the first Gay Pride marches took place in Los Angeles and New York
commemorating the anniversary of the riots. Similar marches were organized
in other cities. Today, Gay Pride events are held annually throughout the
world toward the end of June to mark the Stonewall riots.
The Stonewall riots were a series of spontaneous, violent demonstrations
against a police raid that took place in the early morning hours of June 28,
1969, at the Stonewall Inn, in the Greenwich Village neighborhood of New
York City. They are frequently cited as the first instance in American
history when people in the homosexual community fought back against a
government-sponsored system that persecuted sexual minorities, and they have
become the defining event that marked the start of the gay rights movement
in the United States and around the world.

American gays and lesbians in the 1950s and 1960s faced a legal system more
anti-homosexual than those of some Warsaw Pact countries.[note 1][2] Early
homophile groups in the U.S. sought to prove that gay people could be
assimilated into society, and they favored non-confrontational education for
homosexuals and heterosexuals alike. The last years of the 1960s, however,
were very contentious, as many social movements were active, including the
African American Civil Rights Movement, the Counterculture of the 1960s, and
antiwar demonstrations. These influences, along with the liberal environment
of Greenwich Village, served as catalysts for the Stonewall riots.

Very few establishments welcomed openly gay people in the 1950s and 1960s.
Those that did were often bars, although bar owners and managers were rarely
gay. The Stonewall Inn, at the time, was owned by the Mafia.[3][4] It
catered to an assortment of patrons, but it was known to be popular with the
most marginalized people in the gay community: transvestites, effeminate
young men, hustlers, and homeless youth.[note 2] Police raids on gay bars
were routine in the 1960s, but officers quickly lost control of the
situation at the Stonewall Inn, and attracted a crowd that was incited to
riot. Tensions between New York City police and gay residents of Greenwich
Village erupted into more protests the next evening, and again several
nights later. Within weeks, Village residents quickly organized into
activist groups to concentrate efforts on establishing places for gays and
lesbians to be open about their sexual orientation without fear of being
arrested.

After the Stonewall riots, gays and lesbians in New York City faced gender,
class, and generational obstacles to becoming a cohesive community. Within
six months, two gay activist organizations were formed in New York,
concentrating on confrontational tactics, and three newspapers were
established to promote rights for gays and lesbians. Within a few years, gay
rights organizations were founded across the U.S. and the world. On June 28,
1970, the first Gay Pride marches took place in Los Angeles and New York
commemorating the anniversary of the riots. Similar marches were organized
in other cities. Today, Gay Pride events are held annually throughout the
world toward the end of June to mark the Stonewall riots.
The Stonewall riots were a series of spontaneous, violent demonstrations
against a police raid that took place in the early morning hours of June 28,
1969, at the Stonewall Inn, in the Greenwich Village neighborhood of New
York City. They are frequently cited as the first instance in American
history when people in the homosexual community fought back against a
government-sponsored system that persecuted sexual minorities, and they have
become the defining event that marked the start of the gay rights movement
in the United States and around the world.

American gays and lesbians in the 1950s and 1960s faced a legal system more
anti-homosexual than those of some Warsaw Pact countries.[note 1][2] Early
homophile groups in the U.S. sought to prove that gay people could be
assimilated into society, and they favored non-confrontational education for
homosexuals and heterosexuals alike. The last years of the 1960s, however,
were very contentious, as many social movements were active, including the
African American Civil Rights Movement, the Counterculture of the 1960s, and
antiwar demonstrations. These influences, along with the liberal environment
of Greenwich Village, served as catalysts for the Stonewall riots.

Very few establishments welcomed openly gay people in the 1950s and 1960s.
Those that did were often bars, although bar owners and managers were rarely
gay. The Stonewall Inn, at the time, was owned by the Mafia.[3][4] It
catered to an assortment of patrons, but it was known to be popular with the
most marginalized people in the gay community: transvestites, effeminate
young men, hustlers, and homeless youth.[note 2] Police raids on gay bars
were routine in the 1960s, but officers quickly lost control of the
situation at the Stonewall Inn, and attracted a crowd that was incited to
riot. Tensions between New York City police and gay residents of Greenwich
Village erupted into more protests the next evening, and again several
nights later. Within weeks, Village residents quickly organized into
activist groups to concentrate efforts on establishing places for gays and
lesbians to be open about their sexual orientation without fear of being
arrested.

After the Stonewall riots, gays and lesbians in New York City faced gender,
class, and generational obstacles to becoming a cohesive community. Within
six months, two gay activist organizations were formed in New York,
concentrating on confrontational tactics, and three newspapers were
established to promote rights for gays and lesbians. Within a few years, gay
rights organizations were founded across the U.S. and the world. On June 28,
1970, the first Gay Pride marches took place in Los Angeles and New York
commemorating the anniversary of the riots. Similar marches were organized
in other cities. Today, Gay Pride events are held annually throughout the
world toward the end of June to mark the Stonewall riots.
The Stonewall riots were a series of spontaneous, violent demonstrations
against a police raid that took place in the early morning hours of June 28,
1969, at the Stonewall Inn, in the Greenwich Village neighborhood of New
York City. They are frequently cited as the first instance in American
history when people in the homosexual community fought back against a
government-sponsored system that persecuted sexual minorities, and they have
become the defining event that marked the start of the gay rights movement
in the United States and around the world.

American gays and lesbians in the 1950s and 1960s faced a legal system more
anti-homosexual than those of some Warsaw Pact countries.[note 1][2] Early
homophile groups in the U.S. sought to prove that gay people could be
assimilated into society, and they favored non-confrontational education for
homosexuals and heterosexuals alike. The last years of the 1960s, however,
were very contentious, as many social movements were active, including the
African American Civil Rights Movement, the Counterculture of the 1960s, and
antiwar demonstrations. These influences, along with the liberal environment
of Greenwich Village, served as catalysts for the Stonewall riots.

Very few establishments welcomed openly gay people in the 1950s and 1960s.
Those that did were often bars, although bar owners and managers were rarely
gay. The Stonewall Inn, at the time, was owned by the Mafia.[3][4] It
catered to an assortment of patrons, but it was known to be popular with the
most marginalized people in the gay community: transvestites, effeminate
young men, hustlers, and homeless youth.[note 2] Police raids on gay bars
were routine in the 1960s, but officers quickly lost control of the
situation at the Stonewall Inn, and attracted a crowd that was incited to
riot. Tensions between New York City police and gay residents of Greenwich
Village erupted into more protests the next evening, and again several
nights later. Within weeks, Village residents quickly organized into
activist groups to concentrate efforts on establishing places for gays and
lesbians to be open about their sexual orientation without fear of being
arrested.

After the Stonewall riots, gays and lesbians in New York City faced gender,
class, and generational obstacles to becoming a cohesive community. Within
six months, two gay activist organizations were formed in New York,
concentrating on confrontational tactics, and three newspapers were
established to promote rights for gays and lesbians. Within a few years, gay
rights organizations were founded across the U.S. and the world. On June 28,
1970, the first Gay Pride marches took place in Los Angeles and New York
commemorating the anniversary of the riots. Similar marches were organized
in other cities. Today, Gay Pride events are held annually throughout the
world toward the end of June to mark the Stonewall riots.
The Stonewall riots were a series of spontaneous, violent demonstrations
against a police raid that took place in the early morning hours of June 28,
1969, at the Stonewall Inn, in the Greenwich Village neighborhood of New
York City. They are frequently cited as the first instance in American
history when people in the homosexual community fought back against a
government-sponsored system that persecuted sexual minorities, and they have
become the defining event that marked the start of the gay rights movement
in the United States and around the world.

American gays and lesbians in the 1950s and 1960s faced a legal system more
anti-homosexual than those of some Warsaw Pact countries.[note 1][2] Early
homophile groups in the U.S. sought to prove that gay people could be
assimilated into society, and they favored non-confrontational education for
homosexuals and heterosexuals alike. The last years of the 1960s, however,
were very contentious, as many social movements were active, including the
African American Civil Rights Movement, the Counterculture of the 1960s, and
antiwar demonstrations. These influences, along with the liberal environment
of Greenwich Village, served as catalysts for the Stonewall riots.

Very few establishments welcomed openly gay people in the 1950s and 1960s.
Those that did were often bars, although bar owners and managers were rarely
gay. The Stonewall Inn, at the time, was owned by the Mafia.[3][4] It
catered to an assortment of patrons, but it was known to be popular with the
most marginalized people in the gay community: transvestites, effeminate
young men, hustlers, and homeless youth.[note 2] Police raids on gay bars
were routine in the 1960s, but officers quickly lost control of the
situation at the Stonewall Inn, and attracted a crowd that was incited to
riot. Tensions between New York City police and gay residents of Greenwich
Village erupted into more protests the next evening, and again several
nights later. Within weeks, Village residents quickly organized into
activist groups to concentrate efforts on establishing places for gays and
lesbians to be open about their sexual orientation without fear of being
arrested.

After the Stonewall riots, gays and lesbians in New York City faced gender,
class, and generational obstacles to becoming a cohesive community. Within
six months, two gay activist organizations were formed in New York,
concentrating on confrontational tactics, and three newspapers were
established to promote rights for gays and lesbians. Within a few years, gay
rights organizations were founded across the U.S. and the world. On June 28,
1970, the first Gay Pride marches took place in Los Angeles and New York
commemorating the anniversary of the riots. Similar marches were organized
in other cities. Today, Gay Pride events are held annually throughout the
world toward the end of June to mark the Stonewall riots.
The Stonewall riots were a series of spontaneous, violent demonstrations
against a police raid that took place in the early morning hours of June 28,
1969, at the Stonewall Inn, in the Greenwich Village neighborhood of New
York City. They are frequently cited as the first instance in American
history when people in the homosexual community fought back against a
government-sponsored system that persecuted sexual minorities, and they have
become the defining event that marked the start of the gay rights movement
in the United States and around the world.

American gays and lesbians in the 1950s and 1960s faced a legal system more
anti-homosexual than those of some Warsaw Pact countries.[note 1][2] Early
homophile groups in the U.S. sought to prove that gay people could be
assimilated into society, and they favored non-confrontational education for
homosexuals and heterosexuals alike. The last years of the 1960s, however,
were very contentious, as many social movements were active, including the
African American Civil Rights Movement, the Counterculture of the 1960s, and
antiwar demonstrations. These influences, along with the liberal environment
of Greenwich Village, served as catalysts for the Stonewall riots.

Very few establishments welcomed openly gay people in the 1950s and 1960s.
Those that did were often bars, although bar owners and managers were rarely
gay. The Stonewall Inn, at the time, was owned by the Mafia.[3][4] It
catered to an assortment of patrons, but it was known to be popular with the
most marginalized people in the gay community: transvestites, effeminate
young men, hustlers, and homeless youth.[note 2] Police raids on gay bars
were routine in the 1960s, but officers quickly lost control of the
situation at the Stonewall Inn, and attracted a crowd that was incited to
riot. Tensions between New York City police and gay residents of Greenwich
Village erupted into more protests the next evening, and again several
nights later. Within weeks, Village residents quickly organized into
activist groups to concentrate efforts on establishing places for gays and
lesbians to be open about their sexual orientation without fear of being
arrested.

After the Stonewall riots, gays and lesbians in New York City faced gender,
class, and generational obstacles to becoming a cohesive community. Within
six months, two gay activist organizations were formed in New York,
concentrating on confrontational tactics, and three newspapers were
established to promote rights for gays and lesbians. Within a few years, gay
rights organizations were founded across the U.S. and the world. On June 28,
1970, the first Gay Pride marches took place in Los Angeles and New York
commemorating the anniversary of the riots. Similar marches were organized
in other cities. Today, Gay Pride events are held annually throughout the
world toward the end of June to mark the Stonewall riots.
The Stonewall riots were a series of spontaneous, violent demonstrations
against a police raid that took place in the early morning hours of June 28,
1969, at the Stonewall Inn, in the Greenwich Village neighborhood of New
York City. They are frequently cited as the first instance in American
history when people in the homosexual community fought back against a
government-sponsored system that persecuted sexual minorities, and they have
become the defining event that marked the start of the gay rights movement
in the United States and around the world.

American gays and lesbians in the 1950s and 1960s faced a legal system more
anti-homosexual than those of some Warsaw Pact countries.[note 1][2] Early
homophile groups in the U.S. sought to prove that gay people could be
assimilated into society, and they favored non-confrontational education for
homosexuals and heterosexuals alike. The last years of the 1960s, however,
were very contentious, as many social movements were active, including the
African American Civil Rights Movement, the Counterculture of the 1960s, and
antiwar demonstrations. These influences, along with the liberal environment
of Greenwich Village, served as catalysts for the Stonewall riots.

Very few establishments welcomed openly gay people in the 1950s and 1960s.
Those that did were often bars, although bar owners and managers were rarely
gay. The Stonewall Inn, at the time, was owned by the Mafia.[3][4] It
catered to an assortment of patrons, but it was known to be popular with the
most marginalized people in the gay community: transvestites, effeminate
young men, hustlers, and homeless youth.[note 2] Police raids on gay bars
were routine in the 1960s, but officers quickly lost control of the
situation at the Stonewall Inn, and attracted a crowd that was incited to
riot. Tensions between New York City police and gay residents of Greenwich
Village erupted into more protests the next evening, and again several
nights later. Within weeks, Village residents quickly organized into
activist groups to concentrate efforts on establishing places for gays and
lesbians to be open about their sexual orientation without fear of being
arrested.

After the Stonewall riots, gays and lesbians in New York City faced gender,
class, and generational obstacles to becoming a cohesive community. Within
six months, two gay activist organizations were formed in New York,
concentrating on confrontational tactics, and three newspapers were
established to promote rights for gays and lesbians. Within a few years, gay
rights organizations were founded across the U.S. and the world. On June 28,
1970, the first Gay Pride marches took place in Los Angeles and New York
commemorating the anniversary of the riots. Similar marches were organized
in other cities. Today, Gay Pride events are held annually throughout the
world toward the end of June to mark the Stonewall riots.
The Stonewall riots were a series of spontaneous, violent demonstrations
against a police raid that took place in the early morning hours of June 28,
1969, at the Stonewall Inn, in the Greenwich Village neighborhood of New
York City. They are frequently cited as the first instance in American
history when people in the homosexual community fought back against a
government-sponsored system that persecuted sexual minorities, and they have
become the defining event that marked the start of the gay rights movement
in the United States and around the world.

American gays and lesbians in the 1950s and 1960s faced a legal system more
anti-homosexual than those of some Warsaw Pact countries.[note 1][2] Early
homophile groups in the U.S. sought to prove that gay people could be
assimilated into society, and they favored non-confrontational education for
homosexuals and heterosexuals alike. The last years of the 1960s, however,
were very contentious, as many social movements were active, including the
African American Civil Rights Movement, the Counterculture of the 1960s, and
antiwar demonstrations. These influences, along with the liberal environment
of Greenwich Village, served as catalysts for the Stonewall riots.

Very few establishments welcomed openly gay people in the 1950s and 1960s.
Those that did were often bars, although bar owners and managers were rarely
gay. The Stonewall Inn, at the time, was owned by the Mafia.[3][4] It
catered to an assortment of patrons, but it was known to be popular with the
most marginalized people in the gay community: transvestites, effeminate
young men, hustlers, and homeless youth.[note 2] Police raids on gay bars
were routine in the 1960s, but officers quickly lost control of the
situation at the Stonewall Inn, and attracted a crowd that was incited to
riot. Tensions between New York City police and gay residents of Greenwich
Village erupted into more protests the next evening, and again several
nights later. Within weeks, Village residents quickly organized into
activist groups to concentrate efforts on establishing places for gays and
lesbians to be open about their sexual orientation without fear of being
arrested.

After the Stonewall riots, gays and lesbians in New York City faced gender,
class, and generational obstacles to becoming a cohesive community. Within
six months, two gay activist organizations were formed in New York,
concentrating on confrontational tactics, and three newspapers were
established to promote rights for gays and lesbians. Within a few years, gay
rights organizations were founded across the U.S. and the world. On June 28,
1970, the first Gay Pride marches took place in Los Angeles and New York
commemorating the anniversary of the riots. Similar marches were organized
in other cities. Today, Gay Pride events are held annually throughout the
world toward the end of June to mark the Stonewall riots.
The Stonewall riots were a series of spontaneous, violent demonstrations
against a police raid that took place in the early morning hours of June 28,
1969, at the Stonewall Inn, in the Greenwich Village neighborhood of New
York City. They are frequently cited as the first instance in American
history when people in the homosexual community fought back against a
government-sponsored system that persecuted sexual minorities, and they have
become the defining event that marked the start of the gay rights movement
in the United States and around the world.

American gays and lesbians in the 1950s and 1960s faced a legal system more
anti-homosexual than those of some Warsaw Pact countries.[note 1][2] Early
homophile groups in the U.S. sought to prove that gay people could be
assimilated into society, and they favored non-confrontational education for
homosexuals and heterosexuals alike. The last years of the 1960s, however,
were very contentious, as many social movements were active, including the
African American Civil Rights Movement, the Counterculture of the 1960s, and
antiwar demonstrations. These influences, along with the liberal environment
of Greenwich Village, served as catalysts for the Stonewall riots.

Very few establishments welcomed openly gay people in the 1950s and 1960s.
Those that did were often bars, although bar owners and managers were rarely
gay. The Stonewall Inn, at the time, was owned by the Mafia.[3][4] It
catered to an assortment of patrons, but it was known to be popular with the
most marginalized people in the gay community: transvestites, effeminate
young men, hustlers, and homeless youth.[note 2] Police raids on gay bars
were routine in the 1960s, but officers quickly lost control of the
situation at the Stonewall Inn, and attracted a crowd that was incited to
riot. Tensions between New York City police and gay residents of Greenwich
Village erupted into more protests the next evening, and again several
nights later. Within weeks, Village residents quickly organized into
activist groups to concentrate efforts on establishing places for gays and
lesbians to be open about their sexual orientation without fear of being
arrested.

After the Stonewall riots, gays and lesbians in New York City faced gender,
class, and generational obstacles to becoming a cohesive community. Within
six months, two gay activist organizations were formed in New York,
concentrating on confrontational tactics, and three newspapers were
established to promote rights for gays and lesbians. Within a few years, gay
rights organizations were founded across the U.S. and the world. On June 28,
1970, the first Gay Pride marches took place in Los Angeles and New York
commemorating the anniversary of the riots. Similar marches were organized
in other cities. Today, Gay Pride events are held annually throughout the
world toward the end of June to mark the Stonewall riots.
The Stonewall riots were a series of spontaneous, violent demonstrations
against a police raid that took place in the early morning hours of June 28,
1969, at the Stonewall Inn, in the Greenwich Village neighborhood of New
York City. They are frequently cited as the first instance in American
history when people in the homosexual community fought back against a
government-sponsored system that persecuted sexual minorities, and they have
become the defining event that marked the start of the gay rights movement
in the United States and around the world.

American gays and lesbians in the 1950s and 1960s faced a legal system more
anti-homosexual than those of some Warsaw Pact countries.[note 1][2] Early
homophile groups in the U.S. sought to prove that gay people could be
assimilated into society, and they favored non-confrontational education for
homosexuals and heterosexuals alike. The last years of the 1960s, however,
were very contentious, as many social movements were active, including the
African American Civil Rights Movement, the Counterculture of the 1960s, and
antiwar demonstrations. These influences, along with the liberal environment
of Greenwich Village, served as catalysts for the Stonewall riots.

Very few establishments welcomed openly gay people in the 1950s and 1960s.
Those that did were often bars, although bar owners and managers were rarely
gay. The Stonewall Inn, at the time, was owned by the Mafia.[3][4] It
catered to an assortment of patrons, but it was known to be popular with the
most marginalized people in the gay community: transvestites, effeminate
young men, hustlers, and homeless youth.[note 2] Police raids on gay bars
were routine in the 1960s, but officers quickly lost control of the
situation at the Stonewall Inn, and attracted a crowd that was incited to
riot. Tensions between New York City police and gay residents of Greenwich
Village erupted into more protests the next evening, and again several
nights later. Within weeks, Village residents quickly organized into
activist groups to concentrate efforts on establishing places for gays and
lesbians to be open about their sexual orientation without fear of being
arrested.

After the Stonewall riots, gays and lesbians in New York City faced gender,
class, and generational obstacles to becoming a cohesive community. Within
six months, two gay activist organizations were formed in New York,
concentrating on confrontational tactics, and three newspapers were
established to promote rights for gays and lesbians. Within a few years, gay
rights organizations were founded across the U.S. and the world. On June 28,
1970, the first Gay Pride marches took place in Los Angeles and New York
commemorating the anniversary of the riots. Similar marches were organized
in other cities. Today, Gay Pride events are held annually throughout the
world toward the end of June to mark the Stonewall riots.
The Stonewall riots were a series of spontaneous, violent demonstrations
against a police raid that took place in the early morning hours of June 28,
1969, at the Stonewall Inn, in the Greenwich Village neighborhood of New
York City. They are frequently cited as the first instance in American
history when people in the homosexual community fought back against a
government-sponsored system that persecuted sexual minorities, and they have
become the defining event that marked the start of the gay rights movement
in the United States and around the world.

American gays and lesbians in the 1950s and 1960s faced a legal system more
anti-homosexual than those of some Warsaw Pact countries.[note 1][2] Early
homophile groups in the U.S. sought to prove that gay people could be
assimilated into society, and they favored non-confrontational education for
homosexuals and heterosexuals alike. The last years of the 1960s, however,
were very contentious, as many social movements were active, including the
African American Civil Rights Movement, the Counterculture of the 1960s, and
antiwar demonstrations. These influences, along with the liberal environment
of Greenwich Village, served as catalysts for the Stonewall riots.

Very few establishments welcomed openly gay people in the 1950s and 1960s.
Those that did were often bars, although bar owners and managers were rarely
gay. The Stonewall Inn, at the time, was owned by the Mafia.[3][4] It
catered to an assortment of patrons, but it was known to be popular with the
most marginalized people in the gay community: transvestites, effeminate
young men, hustlers, and homeless youth.[note 2] Police raids on gay bars
were routine in the 1960s, but officers quickly lost control of the
situation at the Stonewall Inn, and attracted a crowd that was incited to
riot. Tensions between New York City police and gay residents of Greenwich
Village erupted into more protests the next evening, and again several
nights later. Within weeks, Village residents quickly organized into
activist groups to concentrate efforts on establishing places for gays and
lesbians to be open about their sexual orientation without fear of being
arrested.

After the Stonewall riots, gays and lesbians in New York City faced gender,
class, and generational obstacles to becoming a cohesive community. Within
six months, two gay activist organizations were formed in New York,
concentrating on confrontational tactics, and three newspapers were
established to promote rights for gays and lesbians. Within a few years, gay
rights organizations were founded across the U.S. and the world. On June 28,
1970, the first Gay Pride marches took place in Los Angeles and New York
commemorating the anniversary of the riots. Similar marches were organized
in other cities. Today, Gay Pride events are held annually throughout the
world toward the end of June to mark the Stonewall riots.
The Stonewall riots were a series of spontaneous, violent demonstrations
against a police raid that took place in the early morning hours of June 28,
1969, at the Stonewall Inn, in the Greenwich Village neighborhood of New
York City. They are frequently cited as the first instance in American
history when people in the homosexual community fought back against a
government-sponsored system that persecuted sexual minorities, and they have
become the defining event that marked the start of the gay rights movement
in the United States and around the world.

American gays and lesbians in the 1950s and 1960s faced a legal system more
anti-homosexual than those of some Warsaw Pact countries.[note 1][2] Early
homophile groups in the U.S. sought to prove that gay people could be
assimilated into society, and they favored non-confrontational education for
homosexuals and heterosexuals alike. The last years of the 1960s, however,
were very contentious, as many social movements were active, including the
African American Civil Rights Movement, the Counterculture of the 1960s, and
antiwar demonstrations. These influences, along with the liberal environment
of Greenwich Village, served as catalysts for the Stonewall riots.

Very few establishments welcomed openly gay people in the 1950s and 1960s.
Those that did were often bars, although bar owners and managers were rarely
gay. The Stonewall Inn, at the time, was owned by the Mafia.[3][4] It
catered to an assortment of patrons, but it was known to be popular with the
most marginalized people in the gay community: transvestites, effeminate
young men, hustlers, and homeless youth.[note 2] Police raids on gay bars
were routine in the 1960s, but officers quickly lost control of the
situation at the Stonewall Inn, and attracted a crowd that was incited to
riot. Tensions between New York City police and gay residents of Greenwich
Village erupted into more protests the next evening, and again several
nights later. Within weeks, Village residents quickly organized into
activist groups to concentrate efforts on establishing places for gays and
lesbians to be open about their sexual orientation without fear of being
arrested.

After the Stonewall riots, gays and lesbians in New York City faced gender,
class, and generational obstacles to becoming a cohesive community. Within
six months, two gay activist organizations were formed in New York,
concentrating on confrontational tactics, and three newspapers were
established to promote rights for gays and lesbians. Within a few years, gay
rights organizations were founded across the U.S. and the world. On June 28,
1970, the first Gay Pride marches took place in Los Angeles and New York
commemorating the anniversary of the riots. Similar marches were organized
in other cities. Today, Gay Pride events are held annually throughout the
world toward the end of June to mark the Stonewall riots.
The Stonewall riots were a series of spontaneous, violent demonstrations
against a police raid that took place in the early morning hours of June 28,
1969, at the Stonewall Inn, in the Greenwich Village neighborhood of New
York City. They are frequently cited as the first instance in American
history when people in the homosexual community fought back against a
government-sponsored system that persecuted sexual minorities, and they have
become the defining event that marked the start of the gay rights movement
in the United States and around the world.

American gays and lesbians in the 1950s and 1960s faced a legal system more
anti-homosexual than those of some Warsaw Pact countries.[note 1][2] Early
homophile groups in the U.S. sought to prove that gay people could be
assimilated into society, and they favored non-confrontational education for
homosexuals and heterosexuals alike. The last years of the 1960s, however,
were very contentious, as many social movements were active, including the
African American Civil Rights Movement, the Counterculture of the 1960s, and
antiwar demonstrations. These influences, along with the liberal environment
of Greenwich Village, served as catalysts for the Stonewall riots.

Very few establishments welcomed openly gay people in the 1950s and 1960s.
Those that did were often bars, although bar owners and managers were rarely
gay. The Stonewall Inn, at the time, was owned by the Mafia.[3][4] It
catered to an assortment of patrons, but it was known to be popular with the
most marginalized people in the gay community: transvestites, effeminate
young men, hustlers, and homeless youth.[note 2] Police raids on gay bars
were routine in the 1960s, but officers quickly lost control of the
situation at the Stonewall Inn, and attracted a crowd that was incited to
riot. Tensions between New York City police and gay residents of Greenwich
Village erupted into more protests the next evening, and again several
nights later. Within weeks, Village residents quickly organized into
activist groups to concentrate efforts on establishing places for gays and
lesbians to be open about their sexual orientation without fear of being
arrested.

After the Stonewall riots, gays and lesbians in New York City faced gender,
class, and generational obstacles to becoming a cohesive community. Within
six months, two gay activist organizations were formed in New York,
concentrating on confrontational tactics, and three newspapers were
established to promote rights for gays and lesbians. Within a few years, gay
rights organizations were founded across the U.S. and the world. On June 28,
1970, the first Gay Pride marches took place in Los Angeles and New York
commemorating the anniversary of the riots. Similar marches were organized
in other cities. Today, Gay Pride events are held annually throughout the
world toward the end of June to mark the Stonewall riots.
The Stonewall riots were a series of spontaneous, violent demonstrations
against a police raid that took place in the early morning hours of June 28,
1969, at the Stonewall Inn, in the Greenwich Village neighborhood of New
York City. They are frequently cited as the first instance in American
history when people in the homosexual community fought back against a
government-sponsored system that persecuted sexual minorities, and they have
become the defining event that marked the start of the gay rights movement
in the United States and around the world.

American gays and lesbians in the 1950s and 1960s faced a legal system more
anti-homosexual than those of some Warsaw Pact countries.[note 1][2] Early
homophile groups in the U.S. sought to prove that gay people could be
assimilated into society, and they favored non-confrontational education for
homosexuals and heterosexuals alike. The last years of the 1960s, however,
were very contentious, as many social movements were active, including the
African American Civil Rights Movement, the Counterculture of the 1960s, and
antiwar demonstrations. These influences, along with the liberal environment
of Greenwich Village, served as catalysts for the Stonewall riots.

Very few establishments welcomed openly gay people in the 1950s and 1960s.
Those that did were often bars, although bar owners and managers were rarely
gay. The Stonewall Inn, at the time, was owned by the Mafia.[3][4] It
catered to an assortment of patrons, but it was known to be popular with the
most marginalized people in the gay community: transvestites, effeminate
young men, hustlers, and homeless youth.[note 2] Police raids on gay bars
were routine in the 1960s, but officers quickly lost control of the
situation at the Stonewall Inn, and attracted a crowd that was incited to
riot. Tensions between New York City police and gay residents of Greenwich
Village erupted into more protests the next evening, and again several
nights later. Within weeks, Village residents quickly organized into
activist groups to concentrate efforts on establishing places for gays and
lesbians to be open about their sexual orientation without fear of being
arrested.

After the Stonewall riots, gays and lesbians in New York City faced gender,
class, and generational obstacles to becoming a cohesive community. Within
six months, two gay activist organizations were formed in New York,
concentrating on confrontational tactics, and three newspapers were
established to promote rights for gays and lesbians. Within a few years, gay
rights organizations were founded across the U.S. and the world. On June 28,
1970, the first Gay Pride marches took place in Los Angeles and New York
commemorating the anniversary of the riots. Similar marches were organized
in other cities. Today, Gay Pride events are held annually throughout the
world toward the end of June to mark the Stonewall riots.
The Stonewall riots were a series of spontaneous, violent demonstrations
against a police raid that took place in the early morning hours of June 28,
1969, at the Stonewall Inn, in the Greenwich Village neighborhood of New
York City. They are frequently cited as the first instance in American
history when people in the homosexual community fought back against a
government-sponsored system that persecuted sexual minorities, and they have
become the defining event that marked the start of the gay rights movement
in the United States and around the world.

American gays and lesbians in the 1950s and 1960s faced a legal system more
anti-homosexual than those of some Warsaw Pact countries.[note 1][2] Early
homophile groups in the U.S. sought to prove that gay people could be
assimilated into society, and they favored non-confrontational education for
homosexuals and heterosexuals alike. The last years of the 1960s, however,
were very contentious, as many social movements were active, including the
African American Civil Rights Movement, the Counterculture of the 1960s, and
antiwar demonstrations. These influences, along with the liberal environment
of Greenwich Village, served as catalysts for the Stonewall riots.

Very few establishments welcomed openly gay people in the 1950s and 1960s.
Those that did were often bars, although bar owners and managers were rarely
gay. The Stonewall Inn, at the time, was owned by the Mafia.[3][4] It
catered to an assortment of patrons, but it was known to be popular with the
most marginalized people in the gay community: transvestites, effeminate
young men, hustlers, and homeless youth.[note 2] Police raids on gay bars
were routine in the 1960s, but officers quickly lost control of the
situation at the Stonewall Inn, and attracted a crowd that was incited to
riot. Tensions between New York City police and gay residents of Greenwich
Village erupted into more protests the next evening, and again several
nights later. Within weeks, Village residents quickly organized into
activist groups to concentrate efforts on establishing places for gays and
lesbians to be open about their sexual orientation without fear of being
arrested.

After the Stonewall riots, gays and lesbians in New York City faced gender,
class, and generational obstacles to becoming a cohesive community. Within
six months, two gay activist organizations were formed in New York,
concentrating on confrontational tactics, and three newspapers were
established to promote rights for gays and lesbians. Within a few years, gay
rights organizations were founded across the U.S. and the world. On June 28,
1970, the first Gay Pride marches took place in Los Angeles and New York
commemorating the anniversary of the riots. Similar marches were organized
in other cities. Today, Gay Pride events are held annually throughout the
world toward the end of June to mark the Stonewall riots.
The Stonewall riots were a series of spontaneous, violent demonstrations
against a police raid that took place in the early morning hours of June 28,
1969, at the Stonewall Inn, in the Greenwich Village neighborhood of New
York City. They are frequently cited as the first instance in American
history when people in the homosexual community fought back against a
government-sponsored system that persecuted sexual minorities, and they have
become the defining event that marked the start of the gay rights movement
in the United States and around the world.

American gays and lesbians in the 1950s and 1960s faced a legal system more
anti-homosexual than those of some Warsaw Pact countries.[note 1][2] Early
homophile groups in the U.S. sought to prove that gay people could be
assimilated into society, and they favored non-confrontational education for
homosexuals and heterosexuals alike. The last years of the 1960s, however,
were very contentious, as many social movements were active, including the
African American Civil Rights Movement, the Counterculture of the 1960s, and
antiwar demonstrations. These influences, along with the liberal environment
of Greenwich Village, served as catalysts for the Stonewall riots.

Very few establishments welcomed openly gay people in the 1950s and 1960s.
Those that did were often bars, although bar owners and managers were rarely
gay. The Stonewall Inn, at the time, was owned by the Mafia.[3][4] It
catered to an assortment of patrons, but it was known to be popular with the
most marginalized people in the gay community: transvestites, effeminate
young men, hustlers, and homeless youth.[note 2] Police raids on gay bars
were routine in the 1960s, but officers quickly lost control of the
situation at the Stonewall Inn, and attracted a crowd that was incited to
riot. Tensions between New York City police and gay residents of Greenwich
Village erupted into more protests the next evening, and again several
nights later. Within weeks, Village residents quickly organized into
activist groups to concentrate efforts on establishing places for gays and
lesbians to be open about their sexual orientation without fear of being
arrested.

After the Stonewall riots, gays and lesbians in New York City faced gender,
class, and generational obstacles to becoming a cohesive community. Within
six months, two gay activist organizations were formed in New York,
concentrating on confrontational tactics, and three newspapers were
established to promote rights for gays and lesbians. Within a few years, gay
rights organizations were founded across the U.S. and the world. On June 28,
1970, the first Gay Pride marches took place in Los Angeles and New York
commemorating the anniversary of the riots. Similar marches were organized
in other cities. Today, Gay Pride events are held annually throughout the
world toward the end of June to mark the Stonewall riots.
The Stonewall riots were a series of spontaneous, violent demonstrations
against a police raid that took place in the early morning hours of June 28,
1969, at the Stonewall Inn, in the Greenwich Village neighborhood of New
York City. They are frequently cited as the first instance in American
history when people in the homosexual community fought back against a
government-sponsored system that persecuted sexual minorities, and they have
become the defining event that marked the start of the gay rights movement
in the United States and around the world.

American gays and lesbians in the 1950s and 1960s faced a legal system more
anti-homosexual than those of some Warsaw Pact countries.[note 1][2] Early
homophile groups in the U.S. sought to prove that gay people could be
assimilated into society, and they favored non-confrontational education for
homosexuals and heterosexuals alike. The last years of the 1960s, however,
were very contentious, as many social movements were active, including the
African American Civil Rights Movement, the Counterculture of the 1960s, and
antiwar demonstrations. These influences, along with the liberal environment
of Greenwich Village, served as catalysts for the Stonewall riots.

Very few establishments welcomed openly gay people in the 1950s and 1960s.
Those that did were often bars, although bar owners and managers were rarely
gay. The Stonewall Inn, at the time, was owned by the Mafia.[3][4] It
catered to an assortment of patrons, but it was known to be popular with the
most marginalized people in the gay community: transvestites, effeminate
young men, hustlers, and homeless youth.[note 2] Police raids on gay bars
were routine in the 1960s, but officers quickly lost control of the
situation at the Stonewall Inn, and attracted a crowd that was incited to
riot. Tensions between New York City police and gay residents of Greenwich
Village erupted into more protests the next evening, and again several
nights later. Within weeks, Village residents quickly organized into
activist groups to concentrate efforts on establishing places for gays and
lesbians to be open about their sexual orientation without fear of being
arrested.

After the Stonewall riots, gays and lesbians in New York City faced gender,
class, and generational obstacles to becoming a cohesive community. Within
six months, two gay activist organizations were formed in New York,
concentrating on confrontational tactics, and three newspapers were
established to promote rights for gays and lesbians. Within a few years, gay
rights organizations were founded across the U.S. and the world. On June 28,
1970, the first Gay Pride marches took place in Los Angeles and New York
commemorating the anniversary of the riots. Similar marches were organized
in other cities. Today, Gay Pride events are held annually throughout the
world toward the end of June to mark the Stonewall riots.
The Stonewall riots were a series of spontaneous, violent demonstrations
against a police raid that took place in the early morning hours of June 28,
1969, at the Stonewall Inn, in the Greenwich Village neighborhood of New
York City. They are frequently cited as the first instance in American
history when people in the homosexual community fought back against a
government-sponsored system that persecuted sexual minorities, and they have
become the defining event that marked the start of the gay rights movement
in the United States and around the world.

American gays and lesbians in the 1950s and 1960s faced a legal system more
anti-homosexual than those of some Warsaw Pact countries.[note 1][2] Early
homophile groups in the U.S. sought to prove that gay people could be
assimilated into society, and they favored non-confrontational education for
homosexuals and heterosexuals alike. The last years of the 1960s, however,
were very contentious, as many social movements were active, including the
African American Civil Rights Movement, the Counterculture of the 1960s, and
antiwar demonstrations. These influences, along with the liberal environment
of Greenwich Village, served as catalysts for the Stonewall riots.

Very few establishments welcomed openly gay people in the 1950s and 1960s.
Those that did were often bars, although bar owners and managers were rarely
gay. The Stonewall Inn, at the time, was owned by the Mafia.[3][4] It
catered to an assortment of patrons, but it was known to be popular with the
most marginalized people in the gay community: transvestites, effeminate
young men, hustlers, and homeless youth.[note 2] Police raids on gay bars
were routine in the 1960s, but officers quickly lost control of the
situation at the Stonewall Inn, and attracted a crowd that was incited to
riot. Tensions between New York City police and gay residents of Greenwich
Village erupted into more protests the next evening, and again several
nights later. Within weeks, Village residents quickly organized into
activist groups to concentrate efforts on establishing places for gays and
lesbians to be open about their sexual orientation without fear of being
arrested.

After the Stonewall riots, gays and lesbians in New York City faced gender,
class, and generational obstacles to becoming a cohesive community. Within
six months, two gay activist organizations were formed in New York,
concentrating on confrontational tactics, and three newspapers were
established to promote rights for gays and lesbians. Within a few years, gay
rights organizations were founded across the U.S. and the world. On June 28,
1970, the first Gay Pride marches took place in Los Angeles and New York
commemorating the anniversary of the riots. Similar marches were organized
in other cities. Today, Gay Pride events are held annually throughout the
world toward the end of June to mark the Stonewall riots.
The Stonewall riots were a series of spontaneous, violent demonstrations
against a police raid that took place in the early morning hours of June 28,
1969, at the Stonewall Inn, in the Greenwich Village neighborhood of New
York City. They are frequently cited as the first instance in American
history when people in the homosexual community fought back against a
government-sponsored system that persecuted sexual minorities, and they have
become the defining event that marked the start of the gay rights movement
in the United States and around the world.

American gays and lesbians in the 1950s and 1960s faced a legal system more
anti-homosexual than those of some Warsaw Pact countries.[note 1][2] Early
homophile groups in the U.S. sought to prove that gay people could be
assimilated into society, and they favored non-confrontational education for
homosexuals and heterosexuals alike. The last years of the 1960s, however,
were very contentious, as many social movements were active, including the
African American Civil Rights Movement, the Counterculture of the 1960s, and
antiwar demonstrations. These influences, along with the liberal environment
of Greenwich Village, served as catalysts for the Stonewall riots.

Very few establishments welcomed openly gay people in the 1950s and 1960s.
Those that did were often bars, although bar owners and managers were rarely
gay. The Stonewall Inn, at the time, was owned by the Mafia.[3][4] It
catered to an assortment of patrons, but it was known to be popular with the
most marginalized people in the gay community: transvestites, effeminate
young men, hustlers, and homeless youth.[note 2] Police raids on gay bars
were routine in the 1960s, but officers quickly lost control of the
situation at the Stonewall Inn, and attracted a crowd that was incited to
riot. Tensions between New York City police and gay residents of Greenwich
Village erupted into more protests the next evening, and again several
nights later. Within weeks, Village residents quickly organized into
activist groups to concentrate efforts on establishing places for gays and
lesbians to be open about their sexual orientation without fear of being
arrested.

After the Stonewall riots, gays and lesbians in New York City faced gender,
class, and generational obstacles to becoming a cohesive community. Within
six months, two gay activist organizations were formed in New York,
concentrating on confrontational tactics, and three newspapers were
established to promote rights for gays and lesbians. Within a few years, gay
rights organizations were founded across the U.S. and the world. On June 28,
1970, the first Gay Pride marches took place in Los Angeles and New York
commemorating the anniversary of the riots. Similar marches were organized
in other cities. Today, Gay Pride events are held annually throughout the
world toward the end of June to mark the Stonewall riots.
The Stonewall riots were a series of spontaneous, violent demonstrations
against a police raid that took place in the early morning hours of June 28,
1969, at the Stonewall Inn, in the Greenwich Village neighborhood of New
York City. They are frequently cited as the first instance in American
history when people in the homosexual community fought back against a
government-sponsored system that persecuted sexual minorities, and they have
become the defining event that marked the start of the gay rights movement
in the United States and around the world.

American gays and lesbians in the 1950s and 1960s faced a legal system more
anti-homosexual than those of some Warsaw Pact countries.[note 1][2] Early
homophile groups in the U.S. sought to prove that gay people could be
assimilated into society, and they favored non-confrontational education for
homosexuals and heterosexuals alike. The last years of the 1960s, however,
were very contentious, as many social movements were active, including the
African American Civil Rights Movement, the Counterculture of the 1960s, and
antiwar demonstrations. These influences, along with the liberal environment
of Greenwich Village, served as catalysts for the Stonewall riots.

Very few establishments welcomed openly gay people in the 1950s and 1960s.
Those that did were often bars, although bar owners and managers were rarely
gay. The Stonewall Inn, at the time, was owned by the Mafia.[3][4] It
catered to an assortment of patrons, but it was known to be popular with the
most marginalized people in the gay community: transvestites, effeminate
young men, hustlers, and homeless youth.[note 2] Police raids on gay bars
were routine in the 1960s, but officers quickly lost control of the
situation at the Stonewall Inn, and attracted a crowd that was incited to
riot. Tensions between New York City police and gay residents of Greenwich
Village erupted into more protests the next evening, and again several
nights later. Within weeks, Village residents quickly organized into
activist groups to concentrate efforts on establishing places for gays and
lesbians to be open about their sexual orientation without fear of being
arrested.

After the Stonewall riots, gays and lesbians in New York City faced gender,
class, and generational obstacles to becoming a cohesive community. Within
six months, two gay activist organizations were formed in New York,
concentrating on confrontational tactics, and three newspapers were
established to promote rights for gays and lesbians. Within a few years, gay
rights organizations were founded across the U.S. and the world. On June 28,
1970, the first Gay Pride marches took place in Los Angeles and New York
commemorating the anniversary of the riots. Similar marches were organized
in other cities. Today, Gay Pride events are held annually throughout the
world toward the end of June to mark the Stonewall riots.
The Stonewall riots were a series of spontaneous, violent demonstrations
against a police raid that took place in the early morning hours of June 28,
1969, at the Stonewall Inn, in the Greenwich Village neighborhood of New
York City. They are frequently cited as the first instance in American
history when people in the homosexual community fought back against a
government-sponsored system that persecuted sexual minorities, and they have
become the defining event that marked the start of the gay rights movement
in the United States and around the world.

American gays and lesbians in the 1950s and 1960s faced a legal system more
anti-homosexual than those of some Warsaw Pact countries.[note 1][2] Early
homophile groups in the U.S. sought to prove that gay people could be
assimilated into society, and they favored non-confrontational education for
homosexuals and heterosexuals alike. The last years of the 1960s, however,
were very contentious, as many social movements were active, including the
African American Civil Rights Movement, the Counterculture of the 1960s, and
antiwar demonstrations. These influences, along with the liberal environment
of Greenwich Village, served as catalysts for the Stonewall riots.

Very few establishments welcomed openly gay people in the 1950s and 1960s.
Those that did were often bars, although bar owners and managers were rarely
gay. The Stonewall Inn, at the time, was owned by the Mafia.[3][4] It
catered to an assortment of patrons, but it was known to be popular with the
most marginalized people in the gay community: transvestites, effeminate
young men, hustlers, and homeless youth.[note 2] Police raids on gay bars
were routine in the 1960s, but officers quickly lost control of the
situation at the Stonewall Inn, and attracted a crowd that was incited to
riot. Tensions between New York City police and gay residents of Greenwich
Village erupted into more protests the next evening, and again several
nights later. Within weeks, Village residents quickly organized into
activist groups to concentrate efforts on establishing places for gays and
lesbians to be open about their sexual orientation without fear of being
arrested.

After the Stonewall riots, gays and lesbians in New York City faced gender,
class, and generational obstacles to becoming a cohesive community. Within
six months, two gay activist organizations were formed in New York,
concentrating on confrontational tactics, and three newspapers were
established to promote rights for gays and lesbians. Within a few years, gay
rights organizations were founded across the U.S. and the world. On June 28,
1970, the first Gay Pride marches took place in Los Angeles and New York
commemorating the anniversary of the riots. Similar marches were organized
in other cities. Today, Gay Pride events are held annually throughout the
world toward the end of June to mark the Stonewall riots.
The Stonewall riots were a series of spontaneous, violent demonstrations
against a police raid that took place in the early morning hours of June 28,
1969, at the Stonewall Inn, in the Greenwich Village neighborhood of New
York City. They are frequently cited as the first instance in American
history when people in the homosexual community fought back against a
government-sponsored system that persecuted sexual minorities, and they have
become the defining event that marked the start of the gay rights movement
in the United States and around the world.

American gays and lesbians in the 1950s and 1960s faced a legal system more
anti-homosexual than those of some Warsaw Pact countries.[note 1][2] Early
homophile groups in the U.S. sought to prove that gay people could be
assimilated into society, and they favored non-confrontational education for
homosexuals and heterosexuals alike. The last years of the 1960s, however,
were very contentious, as many social movements were active, including the
African American Civil Rights Movement, the Counterculture of the 1960s, and
antiwar demonstrations. These influences, along with the liberal environment
of Greenwich Village, served as catalysts for the Stonewall riots.

Very few establishments welcomed openly gay people in the 1950s and 1960s.
Those that did were often bars, although bar owners and managers were rarely
gay. The Stonewall Inn, at the time, was owned by the Mafia.[3][4] It
catered to an assortment of patrons, but it was known to be popular with the
most marginalized people in the gay community: transvestites, effeminate
young men, hustlers, and homeless youth.[note 2] Police raids on gay bars
were routine in the 1960s, but officers quickly lost control of the
situation at the Stonewall Inn, and attracted a crowd that was incited to
riot. Tensions between New York City police and gay residents of Greenwich
Village erupted into more protests the next evening, and again several
nights later. Within weeks, Village residents quickly organized into
activist groups to concentrate efforts on establishing places for gays and
lesbians to be open about their sexual orientation without fear of being
arrested.

After the Stonewall riots, gays and lesbians in New York City faced gender,
class, and generational obstacles to becoming a cohesive community. Within
six months, two gay activist organizations were formed in New York,
concentrating on confrontational tactics, and three newspapers were
established to promote rights for gays and lesbians. Within a few years, gay
rights organizations were founded across the U.S. and the world. On June 28,
1970, the first Gay Pride marches took place in Los Angeles and New York
commemorating the anniversary of the riots. Similar marches were organized
in other cities. Today, Gay Pride events are held annually throughout the
world toward the end of June to mark the Stonewall riots.
The Stonewall riots were a series of spontaneous, violent demonstrations
against a police raid that took place in the early morning hours of June 28,
1969, at the Stonewall Inn, in the Greenwich Village neighborhood of New
York City. They are frequently cited as the first instance in American
history when people in the homosexual community fought back against a
government-sponsored system that persecuted sexual minorities, and they have
become the defining event that marked the start of the gay rights movement
in the United States and around the world.

American gays and lesbians in the 1950s and 1960s faced a legal system more
anti-homosexual than those of some Warsaw Pact countries.[note 1][2] Early
homophile groups in the U.S. sought to prove that gay people could be
assimilated into society, and they favored non-confrontational education for
homosexuals and heterosexuals alike. The last years of the 1960s, however,
were very contentious, as many social movements were active, including the
African American Civil Rights Movement, the Counterculture of the 1960s, and
antiwar demonstrations. These influences, along with the liberal environment
of Greenwich Village, served as catalysts for the Stonewall riots.

Very few establishments welcomed openly gay people in the 1950s and 1960s.
Those that did were often bars, although bar owners and managers were rarely
gay. The Stonewall Inn, at the time, was owned by the Mafia.[3][4] It
catered to an assortment of patrons, but it was known to be popular with the
most marginalized people in the gay community: transvestites, effeminate
young men, hustlers, and homeless youth.[note 2] Police raids on gay bars
were routine in the 1960s, but officers quickly lost control of the
situation at the Stonewall Inn, and attracted a crowd that was incited to
riot. Tensions between New York City police and gay residents of Greenwich
Village erupted into more protests the next evening, and again several
nights later. Within weeks, Village residents quickly organized into
activist groups to concentrate efforts on establishing places for gays and
lesbians to be open about their sexual orientation without fear of being
arrested.

After the Stonewall riots, gays and lesbians in New York City faced gender,
class, and generational obstacles to becoming a cohesive community. Within
six months, two gay activist organizations were formed in New York,
concentrating on confrontational tactics, and three newspapers were
established to promote rights for gays and lesbians. Within a few years, gay
rights organizations were founded across the U.S. and the world. On June 28,
1970, the first Gay Pride marches took place in Los Angeles and New York
commemorating the anniversary of the riots. Similar marches were organized
in other cities. Today, Gay Pride events are held annually throughout the
world toward the end of June to mark the Stonewall riots.
The Stonewall riots were a series of spontaneous, violent demonstrations
against a police raid that took place in the early morning hours of June 28,
1969, at the Stonewall Inn, in the Greenwich Village neighborhood of New
York City. They are frequently cited as the first instance in American
history when people in the homosexual community fought back against a
government-sponsored system that persecuted sexual minorities, and they have
become the defining event that marked the start of the gay rights movement
in the United States and around the world.

American gays and lesbians in the 1950s and 1960s faced a legal system more
anti-homosexual than those of some Warsaw Pact countries.[note 1][2] Early
homophile groups in the U.S. sought to prove that gay people could be
assimilated into society, and they favored non-confrontational education for
homosexuals and heterosexuals alike. The last years of the 1960s, however,
were very contentious, as many social movements were active, including the
African American Civil Rights Movement, the Counterculture of the 1960s, and
antiwar demonstrations. These influences, along with the liberal environment
of Greenwich Village, served as catalysts for the Stonewall riots.

Very few establishments welcomed openly gay people in the 1950s and 1960s.
Those that did were often bars, although bar owners and managers were rarely
gay. The Stonewall Inn, at the time, was owned by the Mafia.[3][4] It
catered to an assortment of patrons, but it was known to be popular with the
most marginalized people in the gay community: transvestites, effeminate
young men, hustlers, and homeless youth.[note 2] Police raids on gay bars
were routine in the 1960s, but officers quickly lost control of the
situation at the Stonewall Inn, and attracted a crowd that was incited to
riot. Tensions between New York City police and gay residents of Greenwich
Village erupted into more protests the next evening, and again several
nights later. Within weeks, Village residents quickly organized into
activist groups to concentrate efforts on establishing places for gays and
lesbians to be open about their sexual orientation without fear of being
arrested.

After the Stonewall riots, gays and lesbians in New York City faced gender,
class, and generational obstacles to becoming a cohesive community. Within
six months, two gay activist organizations were formed in New York,
concentrating on confrontational tactics, and three newspapers were
established to promote rights for gays and lesbians. Within a few years, gay
rights organizations were founded across the U.S. and the world. On June 28,
1970, the first Gay Pride marches took place in Los Angeles and New York
commemorating the anniversary of the riots. Similar marches were organized
in other cities. Today, Gay Pride events are held annually throughout the
world toward the end of June to mark the Stonewall riots.
The Stonewall riots were a series of spontaneous, violent demonstrations
against a police raid that took place in the early morning hours of June 28,
1969, at the Stonewall Inn, in the Greenwich Village neighborhood of New
York City. They are frequently cited as the first instance in American
history when people in the homosexual community fought back against a
government-sponsored system that persecuted sexual minorities, and they have
become the defining event that marked the start of the gay rights movement
in the United States and around the world.

American gays and lesbians in the 1950s and 1960s faced a legal system more
anti-homosexual than those of some Warsaw Pact countries.[note 1][2] Early
homophile groups in the U.S. sought to prove that gay people could be
assimilated into society, and they favored non-confrontational education for
homosexuals and heterosexuals alike. The last years of the 1960s, however,
were very contentious, as many social movements were active, including the
African American Civil Rights Movement, the Counterculture of the 1960s, and
antiwar demonstrations. These influences, along with the liberal environment
of Greenwich Village, served as catalysts for the Stonewall riots.

Very few establishments welcomed openly gay people in the 1950s and 1960s.
Those that did were often bars, although bar owners and managers were rarely
gay. The Stonewall Inn, at the time, was owned by the Mafia.[3][4] It
catered to an assortment of patrons, but it was known to be popular with the
most marginalized people in the gay community: transvestites, effeminate
young men, hustlers, and homeless youth.[note 2] Police raids on gay bars
were routine in the 1960s, but officers quickly lost control of the
situation at the Stonewall Inn, and attracted a crowd that was incited to
riot. Tensions between New York City police and gay residents of Greenwich
Village erupted into more protests the next evening, and again several
nights later. Within weeks, Village residents quickly organized into
activist groups to concentrate efforts on establishing places for gays and
lesbians to be open about their sexual orientation without fear of being
arrested.

After the Stonewall riots, gays and lesbians in New York City faced gender,
class, and generational obstacles to becoming a cohesive community. Within
six months, two gay activist organizations were formed in New York,
concentrating on confrontational tactics, and three newspapers were
established to promote rights for gays and lesbians. Within a few years, gay
rights organizations were founded across the U.S. and the world. On June 28,
1970, the first Gay Pride marches took place in Los Angeles and New York
commemorating the anniversary of the riots. Similar marches were organized
in other cities. Today, Gay Pride events are held annually throughout the
world toward the end of June to mark the Stonewall riots.
The Stonewall riots were a series of spontaneous, violent demonstrations
against a police raid that took place in the early morning hours of June 28,
1969, at the Stonewall Inn, in the Greenwich Village neighborhood of New
York City. They are frequently cited as the first instance in American
history when people in the homosexual community fought back against a
government-sponsored system that persecuted sexual minorities, and they have
become the defining event that marked the start of the gay rights movement
in the United States and around the world.

American gays and lesbians in the 1950s and 1960s faced a legal system more
anti-homosexual than those of some Warsaw Pact countries.[note 1][2] Early
homophile groups in the U.S. sought to prove that gay people could be
assimilated into society, and they favored non-confrontational education for
homosexuals and heterosexuals alike. The last years of the 1960s, however,
were very contentious, as many social movements were active, including the
African American Civil Rights Movement, the Counterculture of the 1960s, and
antiwar demonstrations. These influences, along with the liberal environment
of Greenwich Village, served as catalysts for the Stonewall riots.

Very few establishments welcomed openly gay people in the 1950s and 1960s.
Those that did were often bars, although bar owners and managers were rarely
gay. The Stonewall Inn, at the time, was owned by the Mafia.[3][4] It
catered to an assortment of patrons, but it was known to be popular with the
most marginalized people in the gay community: transvestites, effeminate
young men, hustlers, and homeless youth.[note 2] Police raids on gay bars
were routine in the 1960s, but officers quickly lost control of the
situation at the Stonewall Inn, and attracted a crowd that was incited to
riot. Tensions between New York City police and gay residents of Greenwich
Village erupted into more protests the next evening, and again several
nights later. Within weeks, Village residents quickly organized into
activist groups to concentrate efforts on establishing places for gays and
lesbians to be open about their sexual orientation without fear of being
arrested.

After the Stonewall riots, gays and lesbians in New York City faced gender,
class, and generational obstacles to becoming a cohesive community. Within
six months, two gay activist organizations were formed in New York,
concentrating on confrontational tactics, and three newspapers were
established to promote rights for gays and lesbians. Within a few years, gay
rights organizations were founded across the U.S. and the world. On June 28,
1970, the first Gay Pride marches took place in Los Angeles and New York
commemorating the anniversary of the riots. Similar marches were organized
in other cities. Today, Gay Pride events are held annually throughout the
world toward the end of June to mark the Stonewall riots.
The Stonewall riots were a series of spontaneous, violent demonstrations
against a police raid that took place in the early morning hours of June 28,
1969, at the Stonewall Inn, in the Greenwich Village neighborhood of New
York City. They are frequently cited as the first instance in American
history when people in the homosexual community fought back against a
government-sponsored system that persecuted sexual minorities, and they have
become the defining event that marked the start of the gay rights movement
in the United States and around the world.

American gays and lesbians in the 1950s and 1960s faced a legal system more
anti-homosexual than those of some Warsaw Pact countries.[note 1][2] Early
homophile groups in the U.S. sought to prove that gay people could be
assimilated into society, and they favored non-confrontational education for
homosexuals and heterosexuals alike. The last years of the 1960s, however,
were very contentious, as many social movements were active, including the
African American Civil Rights Movement, the Counterculture of the 1960s, and
antiwar demonstrations. These influences, along with the liberal environment
of Greenwich Village, served as catalysts for the Stonewall riots.

Very few establishments welcomed openly gay people in the 1950s and 1960s.
Those that did were often bars, although bar owners and managers were rarely
gay. The Stonewall Inn, at the time, was owned by the Mafia.[3][4] It
catered to an assortment of patrons, but it was known to be popular with the
most marginalized people in the gay community: transvestites, effeminate
young men, hustlers, and homeless youth.[note 2] Police raids on gay bars
were routine in the 1960s, but officers quickly lost control of the
situation at the Stonewall Inn, and attracted a crowd that was incited to
riot. Tensions between New York City police and gay residents of Greenwich
Village erupted into more protests the next evening, and again several
nights later. Within weeks, Village residents quickly organized into
activist groups to concentrate efforts on establishing places for gays and
lesbians to be open about their sexual orientation without fear of being
arrested.

After the Stonewall riots, gays and lesbians in New York City faced gender,
class, and generational obstacles to becoming a cohesive community. Within
six months, two gay activist organizations were formed in New York,
concentrating on confrontational tactics, and three newspapers were
established to promote rights for gays and lesbians. Within a few years, gay
rights organizations were founded across the U.S. and the world. On June 28,
1970, the first Gay Pride marches took place in Los Angeles and New York
commemorating the anniversary of the riots. Similar marches were organized
in other cities. Today, Gay Pride events are held annually throughout the
world toward the end of June to mark the Stonewall riots.
The Stonewall riots were a series of spontaneous, violent demonstrations
against a police raid that took place in the early morning hours of June 28,
1969, at the Stonewall Inn, in the Greenwich Village neighborhood of New
York City. They are frequently cited as the first instance in American
history when people in the homosexual community fought back against a
government-sponsored system that persecuted sexual minorities, and they have
become the defining event that marked the start of the gay rights movement
in the United States and around the world.

American gays and lesbians in the 1950s and 1960s faced a legal system more
anti-homosexual than those of some Warsaw Pact countries.[note 1][2] Early
homophile groups in the U.S. sought to prove that gay people could be
assimilated into society, and they favored non-confrontational education for
homosexuals and heterosexuals alike. The last years of the 1960s, however,
were very contentious, as many social movements were active, including the
African American Civil Rights Movement, the Counterculture of the 1960s, and
antiwar demonstrations. These influences, along with the liberal environment
of Greenwich Village, served as catalysts for the Stonewall riots.

Very few establishments welcomed openly gay people in the 1950s and 1960s.
Those that did were often bars, although bar owners and managers were rarely
gay. The Stonewall Inn, at the time, was owned by the Mafia.[3][4] It
catered to an assortment of patrons, but it was known to be popular with the
most marginalized people in the gay community: transvestites, effeminate
young men, hustlers, and homeless youth.[note 2] Police raids on gay bars
were routine in the 1960s, but officers quickly lost control of the
situation at the Stonewall Inn, and attracted a crowd that was incited to
riot. Tensions between New York City police and gay residents of Greenwich
Village erupted into more protests the next evening, and again several
nights later. Within weeks, Village residents quickly organized into
activist groups to concentrate efforts on establishing places for gays and
lesbians to be open about their sexual orientation without fear of being
arrested.

After the Stonewall riots, gays and lesbians in New York City faced gender,
class, and generational obstacles to becoming a cohesive community. Within
six months, two gay activist organizations were formed in New York,
concentrating on confrontational tactics, and three newspapers were
established to promote rights for gays and lesbians. Within a few years, gay
rights organizations were founded across the U.S. and the world. On June 28,
1970, the first Gay Pride marches took place in Los Angeles and New York
commemorating the anniversary of the riots. Similar marches were organized
in other cities. Today, Gay Pride events are held annually throughout the
world toward the end of June to mark the Stonewall riots.
The Stonewall riots were a series of spontaneous, violent demonstrations
against a police raid that took place in the early morning hours of June 28,
1969, at the Stonewall Inn, in the Greenwich Village neighborhood of New
York City. They are frequently cited as the first instance in American
history when people in the homosexual community fought back against a
government-sponsored system that persecuted sexual minorities, and they have
become the defining event that marked the start of the gay rights movement
in the United States and around the world.

American gays and lesbians in the 1950s and 1960s faced a legal system more
anti-homosexual than those of some Warsaw Pact countries.[note 1][2] Early
homophile groups in the U.S. sought to prove that gay people could be
assimilated into society, and they favored non-confrontational education for
homosexuals and heterosexuals alike. The last years of the 1960s, however,
were very contentious, as many social movements were active, including the
African American Civil Rights Movement, the Counterculture of the 1960s, and
antiwar demonstrations. These influences, along with the liberal environment
of Greenwich Village, served as catalysts for the Stonewall riots.

Very few establishments welcomed openly gay people in the 1950s and 1960s.
Those that did were often bars, although bar owners and managers were rarely
gay. The Stonewall Inn, at the time, was owned by the Mafia.[3][4] It
catered to an assortment of patrons, but it was known to be popular with the
most marginalized people in the gay community: transvestites, effeminate
young men, hustlers, and homeless youth.[note 2] Police raids on gay bars
were routine in the 1960s, but officers quickly lost control of the
situation at the Stonewall Inn, and attracted a crowd that was incited to
riot. Tensions between New York City police and gay residents of Greenwich
Village erupted into more protests the next evening, and again several
nights later. Within weeks, Village residents quickly organized into
activist groups to concentrate efforts on establishing places for gays and
lesbians to be open about their sexual orientation without fear of being
arrested.

After the Stonewall riots, gays and lesbians in New York City faced gender,
class, and generational obstacles to becoming a cohesive community. Within
six months, two gay activist organizations were formed in New York,
concentrating on confrontational tactics, and three newspapers were
established to promote rights for gays and lesbians. Within a few years, gay
rights organizations were founded across the U.S. and the world. On June 28,
1970, the first Gay Pride marches took place in Los Angeles and New York
commemorating the anniversary of the riots. Similar marches were organized
in other cities. Today, Gay Pride events are held annually throughout the
world toward the end of June to mark the Stonewall riots.
The Stonewall riots were a series of spontaneous, violent demonstrations
against a police raid that took place in the early morning hours of June 28,
1969, at the Stonewall Inn, in the Greenwich Village neighborhood of New
York City. They are frequently cited as the first instance in American
history when people in the homosexual community fought back against a
government-sponsored system that persecuted sexual minorities, and they have
become the defining event that marked the start of the gay rights movement
in the United States and around the world.

American gays and lesbians in the 1950s and 1960s faced a legal system more
anti-homosexual than those of some Warsaw Pact countries.[note 1][2] Early
homophile groups in the U.S. sought to prove that gay people could be
assimilated into society, and they favored non-confrontational education for
homosexuals and heterosexuals alike. The last years of the 1960s, however,
were very contentious, as many social movements were active, including the
African American Civil Rights Movement, the Counterculture of the 1960s, and
antiwar demonstrations. These influences, along with the liberal environment
of Greenwich Village, served as catalysts for the Stonewall riots.

Very few establishments welcomed openly gay people in the 1950s and 1960s.
Those that did were often bars, although bar owners and managers were rarely
gay. The Stonewall Inn, at the time, was owned by the Mafia.[3][4] It
catered to an assortment of patrons, but it was known to be popular with the
most marginalized people in the gay community: transvestites, effeminate
young men, hustlers, and homeless youth.[note 2] Police raids on gay bars
were routine in the 1960s, but officers quickly lost control of the
situation at the Stonewall Inn, and attracted a crowd that was incited to
riot. Tensions between New York City police and gay residents of Greenwich
Village erupted into more protests the next evening, and again several
nights later. Within weeks, Village residents quickly organized into
activist groups to concentrate efforts on establishing places for gays and
lesbians to be open about their sexual orientation without fear of being
arrested.

After the Stonewall riots, gays and lesbians in New York City faced gender,
class, and generational obstacles to becoming a cohesive community. Within
six months, two gay activist organizations were formed in New York,
concentrating on confrontational tactics, and three newspapers were
established to promote rights for gays and lesbians. Within a few years, gay
rights organizations were founded across the U.S. and the world. On June 28,
1970, the first Gay Pride marches took place in Los Angeles and New York
commemorating the anniversary of the riots. Similar marches were organized
in other cities. Today, Gay Pride events are held annually throughout the
world toward the end of June to mark the Stonewall riots.
The Stonewall riots were a series of spontaneous, violent demonstrations
against a police raid that took place in the early morning hours of June 28,
1969, at the Stonewall Inn, in the Greenwich Village neighborhood of New
York City. They are frequently cited as the first instance in American
history when people in the homosexual community fought back against a
government-sponsored system that persecuted sexual minorities, and they have
become the defining event that marked the start of the gay rights movement
in the United States and around the world.

American gays and lesbians in the 1950s and 1960s faced a legal system more
anti-homosexual than those of some Warsaw Pact countries.[note 1][2] Early
homophile groups in the U.S. sought to prove that gay people could be
assimilated into society, and they favored non-confrontational education for
homosexuals and heterosexuals alike. The last years of the 1960s, however,
were very contentious, as many social movements were active, including the
African American Civil Rights Movement, the Counterculture of the 1960s, and
antiwar demonstrations. These influences, along with the liberal environment
of Greenwich Village, served as catalysts for the Stonewall riots.

Very few establishments welcomed openly gay people in the 1950s and 1960s.
Those that did were often bars, although bar owners and managers were rarely
gay. The Stonewall Inn, at the time, was owned by the Mafia.[3][4] It
catered to an assortment of patrons, but it was known to be popular with the
most marginalized people in the gay community: transvestites, effeminate
young men, hustlers, and homeless youth.[note 2] Police raids on gay bars
were routine in the 1960s, but officers quickly lost control of the
situation at the Stonewall Inn, and attracted a crowd that was incited to
riot. Tensions between New York City police and gay residents of Greenwich
Village erupted into more protests the next evening, and again several
nights later. Within weeks, Village residents quickly organized into
activist groups to concentrate efforts on establishing places for gays and
lesbians to be open about their sexual orientation without fear of being
arrested.

After the Stonewall riots, gays and lesbians in New York City faced gender,
class, and generational obstacles to becoming a cohesive community. Within
six months, two gay activist organizations were formed in New York,
concentrating on confrontational tactics, and three newspapers were
established to promote rights for gays and lesbians. Within a few years, gay
rights organizations were founded across the U.S. and the world. On June 28,
1970, the first Gay Pride marches took place in Los Angeles and New York
commemorating the anniversary of the riots. Similar marches were organized
in other cities. Today, Gay Pride events are held annually throughout the
world toward the end of June to mark the Stonewall riots.
The Stonewall riots were a series of spontaneous, violent demonstrations
against a police raid that took place in the early morning hours of June 28,
1969, at the Stonewall Inn, in the Greenwich Village neighborhood of New
York City. They are frequently cited as the first instance in American
history when people in the homosexual community fought back against a
government-sponsored system that persecuted sexual minorities, and they have
become the defining event that marked the start of the gay rights movement
in the United States and around the world.

American gays and lesbians in the 1950s and 1960s faced a legal system more
anti-homosexual than those of some Warsaw Pact countries.[note 1][2] Early
homophile groups in the U.S. sought to prove that gay people could be
assimilated into society, and they favored non-confrontational education for
homosexuals and heterosexuals alike. The last years of the 1960s, however,
were very contentious, as many social movements were active, including the
African American Civil Rights Movement, the Counterculture of the 1960s, and
antiwar demonstrations. These influences, along with the liberal environment
of Greenwich Village, served as catalysts for the Stonewall riots.

Very few establishments welcomed openly gay people in the 1950s and 1960s.
Those that did were often bars, although bar owners and managers were rarely
gay. The Stonewall Inn, at the time, was owned by the Mafia.[3][4] It
catered to an assortment of patrons, but it was known to be popular with the
most marginalized people in the gay community: transvestites, effeminate
young men, hustlers, and homeless youth.[note 2] Police raids on gay bars
were routine in the 1960s, but officers quickly lost control of the
situation at the Stonewall Inn, and attracted a crowd that was incited to
riot. Tensions between New York City police and gay residents of Greenwich
Village erupted into more protests the next evening, and again several
nights later. Within weeks, Village residents quickly organized into
activist groups to concentrate efforts on establishing places for gays and
lesbians to be open about their sexual orientation without fear of being
arrested.

After the Stonewall riots, gays and lesbians in New York City faced gender,
class, and generational obstacles to becoming a cohesive community. Within
six months, two gay activist organizations were formed in New York,
concentrating on confrontational tactics, and three newspapers were
established to promote rights for gays and lesbians. Within a few years, gay
rights organizations were founded across the U.S. and the world. On June 28,
1970, the first Gay Pride marches took place in Los Angeles and New York
commemorating the anniversary of the riots. Similar marches were organized
in other cities. Today, Gay Pride events are held annually throughout the
world toward the end of June to mark the Stonewall riots.
The Stonewall riots were a series of spontaneous, violent demonstrations
against a police raid that took place in the early morning hours of June 28,
1969, at the Stonewall Inn, in the Greenwich Village neighborhood of New
York City. They are frequently cited as the first instance in American
history when people in the homosexual community fought back against a
government-sponsored system that persecuted sexual minorities, and they have
become the defining event that marked the start of the gay rights movement
in the United States and around the world.

American gays and lesbians in the 1950s and 1960s faced a legal system more
anti-homosexual than those of some Warsaw Pact countries.[note 1][2] Early
homophile groups in the U.S. sought to prove that gay people could be
assimilated into society, and they favored non-confrontational education for
homosexuals and heterosexuals alike. The last years of the 1960s, however,
were very contentious, as many social movements were active, including the
African American Civil Rights Movement, the Counterculture of the 1960s, and
antiwar demonstrations. These influences, along with the liberal environment
of Greenwich Village, served as catalysts for the Stonewall riots.

Very few establishments welcomed openly gay people in the 1950s and 1960s.
Those that did were often bars, although bar owners and managers were rarely
gay. The Stonewall Inn, at the time, was owned by the Mafia.[3][4] It
catered to an assortment of patrons, but it was known to be popular with the
most marginalized people in the gay community: transvestites, effeminate
young men, hustlers, and homeless youth.[note 2] Police raids on gay bars
were routine in the 1960s, but officers quickly lost control of the
situation at the Stonewall Inn, and attracted a crowd that was incited to
riot. Tensions between New York City police and gay residents of Greenwich
Village erupted into more protests the next evening, and again several
nights later. Within weeks, Village residents quickly organized into
activist groups to concentrate efforts on establishing places for gays and
lesbians to be open about their sexual orientation without fear of being
arrested.

After the Stonewall riots, gays and lesbians in New York City faced gender,
class, and generational obstacles to becoming a cohesive community. Within
six months, two gay activist organizations were formed in New York,
concentrating on confrontational tactics, and three newspapers were
established to promote rights for gays and lesbians. Within a few years, gay
rights organizations were founded across the U.S. and the world. On June 28,
1970, the first Gay Pride marches took place in Los Angeles and New York
commemorating the anniversary of the riots. Similar marches were organized
in other cities. Today, Gay Pride events are held annually throughout the
world toward the end of June to mark the Stonewall riots.
The Stonewall riots were a series of spontaneous, violent demonstrations
against a police raid that took place in the early morning hours of June 28,
1969, at the Stonewall Inn, in the Greenwich Village neighborhood of New
York City. They are frequently cited as the first instance in American
history when people in the homosexual community fought back against a
government-sponsored system that persecuted sexual minorities, and they have
become the defining event that marked the start of the gay rights movement
in the United States and around the world.

American gays and lesbians in the 1950s and 1960s faced a legal system more
anti-homosexual than those of some Warsaw Pact countries.[note 1][2] Early
homophile groups in the U.S. sought to prove that gay people could be
assimilated into society, and they favored non-confrontational education for
homosexuals and heterosexuals alike. The last years of the 1960s, however,
were very contentious, as many social movements were active, including the
African American Civil Rights Movement, the Counterculture of the 1960s, and
antiwar demonstrations. These influences, along with the liberal environment
of Greenwich Village, served as catalysts for the Stonewall riots.

Very few establishments welcomed openly gay people in the 1950s and 1960s.
Those that did were often bars, although bar owners and managers were rarely
gay. The Stonewall Inn, at the time, was owned by the Mafia.[3][4] It
catered to an assortment of patrons, but it was known to be popular with the
most marginalized people in the gay community: transvestites, effeminate
young men, hustlers, and homeless youth.[note 2] Police raids on gay bars
were routine in the 1960s, but officers quickly lost control of the
situation at the Stonewall Inn, and attracted a crowd that was incited to
riot. Tensions between New York City police and gay residents of Greenwich
Village erupted into more protests the next evening, and again several
nights later. Within weeks, Village residents quickly organized into
activist groups to concentrate efforts on establishing places for gays and
lesbians to be open about their sexual orientation without fear of being
arrested.

After the Stonewall riots, gays and lesbians in New York City faced gender,
class, and generational obstacles to becoming a cohesive community. Within
six months, two gay activist organizations were formed in New York,
concentrating on confrontational tactics, and three newspapers were
established to promote rights for gays and lesbians. Within a few years, gay
rights organizations were founded across the U.S. and the world. On June 28,
1970, the first Gay Pride marches took place in Los Angeles and New York
commemorating the anniversary of the riots. Similar marches were organized
in other cities. Today, Gay Pride events are held annually throughout the
world toward the end of June to mark the Stonewall riots.
The Stonewall riots were a series of spontaneous, violent demonstrations
against a police raid that took place in the early morning hours of June 28,
1969, at the Stonewall Inn, in the Greenwich Village neighborhood of New
York City. They are frequently cited as the first instance in American
history when people in the homosexual community fought back against a
government-sponsored system that persecuted sexual minorities, and they have
become the defining event that marked the start of the gay rights movement
in the United States and around the world.

American gays and lesbians in the 1950s and 1960s faced a legal system more
anti-homosexual than those of some Warsaw Pact countries.[note 1][2] Early
homophile groups in the U.S. sought to prove that gay people could be
assimilated into society, and they favored non-confrontational education for
homosexuals and heterosexuals alike. The last years of the 1960s, however,
were very contentious, as many social movements were active, including the
African American Civil Rights Movement, the Counterculture of the 1960s, and
antiwar demonstrations. These influences, along with the liberal environment
of Greenwich Village, served as catalysts for the Stonewall riots.

Very few establishments welcomed openly gay people in the 1950s and 1960s.
Those that did were often bars, although bar owners and managers were rarely
gay. The Stonewall Inn, at the time, was owned by the Mafia.[3][4] It
catered to an assortment of patrons, but it was known to be popular with the
most marginalized people in the gay community: transvestites, effeminate
young men, hustlers, and homeless youth.[note 2] Police raids on gay bars
were routine in the 1960s, but officers quickly lost control of the
situation at the Stonewall Inn, and attracted a crowd that was incited to
riot. Tensions between New York City police and gay residents of Greenwich
Village erupted into more protests the next evening, and again several
nights later. Within weeks, Village residents quickly organized into
activist groups to concentrate efforts on establishing places for gays and
lesbians to be open about their sexual orientation without fear of being
arrested.

After the Stonewall riots, gays and lesbians in New York City faced gender,
class, and generational obstacles to becoming a cohesive community. Within
six months, two gay activist organizations were formed in New York,
concentrating on confrontational tactics, and three newspapers were
established to promote rights for gays and lesbians. Within a few years, gay
rights organizations were founded across the U.S. and the world. On June 28,
1970, the first Gay Pride marches took place in Los Angeles and New York
commemorating the anniversary of the riots. Similar marches were organized
in other cities. Today, Gay Pride events are held annually throughout the
world toward the end of June to mark the Stonewall riots.
The Stonewall riots were a series of spontaneous, violent demonstrations
against a police raid that took place in the early morning hours of June 28,
1969, at the Stonewall Inn, in the Greenwich Village neighborhood of New
York City. They are frequently cited as the first instance in American
history when people in the homosexual community fought back against a
government-sponsored system that persecuted sexual minorities, and they have
become the defining event that marked the start of the gay rights movement
in the United States and around the world.

American gays and lesbians in the 1950s and 1960s faced a legal system more
anti-homosexual than those of some Warsaw Pact countries.[note 1][2] Early
homophile groups in the U.S. sought to prove that gay people could be
assimilated into society, and they favored non-confrontational education for
homosexuals and heterosexuals alike. The last years of the 1960s, however,
were very contentious, as many social movements were active, including the
African American Civil Rights Movement, the Counterculture of the 1960s, and
antiwar demonstrations. These influences, along with the liberal environment
of Greenwich Village, served as catalysts for the Stonewall riots.

Very few establishments welcomed openly gay people in the 1950s and 1960s.
Those that did were often bars, although bar owners and managers were rarely
gay. The Stonewall Inn, at the time, was owned by the Mafia.[3][4] It
catered to an assortment of patrons, but it was known to be popular with the
most marginalized people in the gay community: transvestites, effeminate
young men, hustlers, and homeless youth.[note 2] Police raids on gay bars
were routine in the 1960s, but officers quickly lost control of the
situation at the Stonewall Inn, and attracted a crowd that was incited to
riot. Tensions between New York City police and gay residents of Greenwich
Village erupted into more protests the next evening, and again several
nights later. Within weeks, Village residents quickly organized into
activist groups to concentrate efforts on establishing places for gays and
lesbians to be open about their sexual orientation without fear of being
arrested.

After the Stonewall riots, gays and lesbians in New York City faced gender,
class, and generational obstacles to becoming a cohesive community. Within
six months, two gay activist organizations were formed in New York,
concentrating on confrontational tactics, and three newspapers were
established to promote rights for gays and lesbians. Within a few years, gay
rights organizations were founded across the U.S. and the world. On June 28,
1970, the first Gay Pride marches took place in Los Angeles and New York
commemorating the anniversary of the riots. Similar marches were organized
in other cities. Today, Gay Pride events are held annually throughout the
world toward the end of June to mark the Stonewall riots.
The Stonewall riots were a series of spontaneous, violent demonstrations
against a police raid that took place in the early morning hours of June 28,
1969, at the Stonewall Inn, in the Greenwich Village neighborhood of New
York City. They are frequently cited as the first instance in American
history when people in the homosexual community fought back against a
government-sponsored system that persecuted sexual minorities, and they have
become the defining event that marked the start of the gay rights movement
in the United States and around the world.

American gays and lesbians in the 1950s and 1960s faced a legal system more
anti-homosexual than those of some Warsaw Pact countries.[note 1][2] Early
homophile groups in the U.S. sought to prove that gay people could be
assimilated into society, and they favored non-confrontational education for
homosexuals and heterosexuals alike. The last years of the 1960s, however,
were very contentious, as many social movements were active, including the
African American Civil Rights Movement, the Counterculture of the 1960s, and
antiwar demonstrations. These influences, along with the liberal environment
of Greenwich Village, served as catalysts for the Stonewall riots.

Very few establishments welcomed openly gay people in the 1950s and 1960s.
Those that did were often bars, although bar owners and managers were rarely
gay. The Stonewall Inn, at the time, was owned by the Mafia.[3][4] It
catered to an assortment of patrons, but it was known to be popular with the
most marginalized people in the gay community: transvestites, effeminate
young men, hustlers, and homeless youth.[note 2] Police raids on gay bars
were routine in the 1960s, but officers quickly lost control of the
situation at the Stonewall Inn, and attracted a crowd that was incited to
riot. Tensions between New York City police and gay residents of Greenwich
Village erupted into more protests the next evening, and again several
nights later. Within weeks, Village residents quickly organized into
activist groups to concentrate efforts on establishing places for gays and
lesbians to be open about their sexual orientation without fear of being
arrested.

After the Stonewall riots, gays and lesbians in New York City faced gender,
class, and generational obstacles to becoming a cohesive community. Within
six months, two gay activist organizations were formed in New York,
concentrating on confrontational tactics, and three newspapers were
established to promote rights for gays and lesbians. Within a few years, gay
rights organizations were founded across the U.S. and the world. On June 28,
1970, the first Gay Pride marches took place in Los Angeles and New York
commemorating the anniversary of the riots. Similar marches were organized
in other cities. Today, Gay Pride events are held annually throughout the
world toward the end of June to mark the Stonewall riots.
The Stonewall riots were a series of spontaneous, violent demonstrations
against a police raid that took place in the early morning hours of June 28,
1969, at the Stonewall Inn, in the Greenwich Village neighborhood of New
York City. They are frequently cited as the first instance in American
history when people in the homosexual community fought back against a
government-sponsored system that persecuted sexual minorities, and they have
become the defining event that marked the start of the gay rights movement
in the United States and around the world.

American gays and lesbians in the 1950s and 1960s faced a legal system more
anti-homosexual than those of some Warsaw Pact countries.[note 1][2] Early
homophile groups in the U.S. sought to prove that gay people could be
assimilated into society, and they favored non-confrontational education for
homosexuals and heterosexuals alike. The last years of the 1960s, however,
were very contentious, as many social movements were active, including the
African American Civil Rights Movement, the Counterculture of the 1960s, and
antiwar demonstrations. These influences, along with the liberal environment
of Greenwich Village, served as catalysts for the Stonewall riots.

Very few establishments welcomed openly gay people in the 1950s and 1960s.
Those that did were often bars, although bar owners and managers were rarely
gay. The Stonewall Inn, at the time, was owned by the Mafia.[3][4] It
catered to an assortment of patrons, but it was known to be popular with the
most marginalized people in the gay community: transvestites, effeminate
young men, hustlers, and homeless youth.[note 2] Police raids on gay bars
were routine in the 1960s, but officers quickly lost control of the
situation at the Stonewall Inn, and attracted a crowd that was incited to
riot. Tensions between New York City police and gay residents of Greenwich
Village erupted into more protests the next evening, and again several
nights later. Within weeks, Village residents quickly organized into
activist groups to concentrate efforts on establishing places for gays and
lesbians to be open about their sexual orientation without fear of being
arrested.

After the Stonewall riots, gays and lesbians in New York City faced gender,
class, and generational obstacles to becoming a cohesive community. Within
six months, two gay activist organizations were formed in New York,
concentrating on confrontational tactics, and three newspapers were
established to promote rights for gays and lesbians. Within a few years, gay
rights organizations were founded across the U.S. and the world. On June 28,
1970, the first Gay Pride marches took place in Los Angeles and New York
commemorating the anniversary of the riots. Similar marches were organized
in other cities. Today, Gay Pride events are held annually throughout the
world toward the end of June to mark the Stonewall riots.
The Stonewall riots were a series of spontaneous, violent demonstrations
against a police raid that took place in the early morning hours of June 28,
1969, at the Stonewall Inn, in the Greenwich Village neighborhood of New
York City. They are frequently cited as the first instance in American
history when people in the homosexual community fought back against a
government-sponsored system that persecuted sexual minorities, and they have
become the defining event that marked the start of the gay rights movement
in the United States and around the world.

American gays and lesbians in the 1950s and 1960s faced a legal system more
anti-homosexual than those of some Warsaw Pact countries.[note 1][2] Early
homophile groups in the U.S. sought to prove that gay people could be
assimilated into society, and they favored non-confrontational education for
homosexuals and heterosexuals alike. The last years of the 1960s, however,
were very contentious, as many social movements were active, including the
African American Civil Rights Movement, the Counterculture of the 1960s, and
antiwar demonstrations. These influences, along with the liberal environment
of Greenwich Village, served as catalysts for the Stonewall riots.

Very few establishments welcomed openly gay people in the 1950s and 1960s.
Those that did were often bars, although bar owners and managers were rarely
gay. The Stonewall Inn, at the time, was owned by the Mafia.[3][4] It
catered to an assortment of patrons, but it was known to be popular with the
most marginalized people in the gay community: transvestites, effeminate
young men, hustlers, and homeless youth.[note 2] Police raids on gay bars
were routine in the 1960s, but officers quickly lost control of the
situation at the Stonewall Inn, and attracted a crowd that was incited to
riot. Tensions between New York City police and gay residents of Greenwich
Village erupted into more protests the next evening, and again several
nights later. Within weeks, Village residents quickly organized into
activist groups to concentrate efforts on establishing places for gays and
lesbians to be open about their sexual orientation without fear of being
arrested.

After the Stonewall riots, gays and lesbians in New York City faced gender,
class, and generational obstacles to becoming a cohesive community. Within
six months, two gay activist organizations were formed in New York,
concentrating on confrontational tactics, and three newspapers were
established to promote rights for gays and lesbians. Within a few years, gay
rights organizations were founded across the U.S. and the world. On June 28,
1970, the first Gay Pride marches took place in Los Angeles and New York
commemorating the anniversary of the riots. Similar marches were organized
in other cities. Today, Gay Pride events are held annually throughout the
world toward the end of June to mark the Stonewall riots.
The Stonewall riots were a series of spontaneous, violent demonstrations
against a police raid that took place in the early morning hours of June 28,
1969, at the Stonewall Inn, in the Greenwich Village neighborhood of New
York City. They are frequently cited as the first instance in American
history when people in the homosexual community fought back against a
government-sponsored system that persecuted sexual minorities, and they have
become the defining event that marked the start of the gay rights movement
in the United States and around the world.

American gays and lesbians in the 1950s and 1960s faced a legal system more
anti-homosexual than those of some Warsaw Pact countries.[note 1][2] Early
homophile groups in the U.S. sought to prove that gay people could be
assimilated into society, and they favored non-confrontational education for
homosexuals and heterosexuals alike. The last years of the 1960s, however,
were very contentious, as many social movements were active, including the
African American Civil Rights Movement, the Counterculture of the 1960s, and
antiwar demonstrations. These influences, along with the liberal environment
of Greenwich Village, served as catalysts for the Stonewall riots.

Very few establishments welcomed openly gay people in the 1950s and 1960s.
Those that did were often bars, although bar owners and managers were rarely
gay. The Stonewall Inn, at the time, was owned by the Mafia.[3][4] It
catered to an assortment of patrons, but it was known to be popular with the
most marginalized people in the gay community: transvestites, effeminate
young men, hustlers, and homeless youth.[note 2] Police raids on gay bars
were routine in the 1960s, but officers quickly lost control of the
situation at the Stonewall Inn, and attracted a crowd that was incited to
riot. Tensions between New York City police and gay residents of Greenwich
Village erupted into more protests the next evening, and again several
nights later. Within weeks, Village residents quickly organized into
activist groups to concentrate efforts on establishing places for gays and
lesbians to be open about their sexual orientation without fear of being
arrested.

After the Stonewall riots, gays and lesbians in New York City faced gender,
class, and generational obstacles to becoming a cohesive community. Within
six months, two gay activist organizations were formed in New York,
concentrating on confrontational tactics, and three newspapers were
established to promote rights for gays and lesbians. Within a few years, gay
rights organizations were founded across the U.S. and the world. On June 28,
1970, the first Gay Pride marches took place in Los Angeles and New York
commemorating the anniversary of the riots. Similar marches were organized
in other cities. Today, Gay Pride events are held annually throughout the
world toward the end of June to mark the Stonewall riots.
